The Project Gutenberg eBook of Billy Whiskers Jr., by Frances Trego
Montgomery

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Billy Whiskers Jr.

Author: Frances Trego Montgomery

Illustrator: W. H. Fry

Release Date: August 8, 2021 [eBook #66006]

Language: English

Produced by: David E. Brown and The Online Distributed Proofreading Team
             at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive/American
             Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BILLY WHISKERS JR. ***


[Illustration: HE RUSHED UPON THE TREACHEROUS INDIAN.]




  BILLY WHISKERS JR.

  _AKRON, OHIO._
  _THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING CO._
  _NEW YORK._      _CHICAGO._

  COPYRIGHT, 1904
  BY
  THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY.




  THIS BOOK
  IS LOVINGLY DEDICATED
  TO
  MY LITTLE GODSON,
  JACK HANSON MICHENER.




_CONTENTS_


  NIGHT GROWS TIRED OF THE FARM                          7

  WESTWARD HO!                                          14

  THE COLLISION                                         21

  BILLY JR. GETS A TASTE OF THE WEST                    30

  BILLY JR. AS LEADER OF THE SHEEP                      37

  A FIGHT WITH WOLVES                                   43

  BILLY LEARNS SOMETHING ABOUT COWBOYS AND INDIANS      50

  BILLY JR. AND THE FIREMEN                             62

  BILLY, THE CHRISTMAS TREE, AND THE IRISHWOMAN         71

  BILLY JR. HAS SOME NEW EXPERIENCES                    79

  BILLY JR. AND STUBBY                                  89

  SMALL ADVENTURES                                      96

  THE MIDNIGHT FIRE                                    103

  THE BULL-FIGHT                                       110

  THE ESCAPE                                           115

  THE VOLCANO                                          123

  AN UNEXPECTED TRIP                                   134




_Illustrations_


                                                                    PAGE

  HE RUSHED UPON THE TREACHEROUS INDIAN                   _Frontispiece_

  THERE WAS A TERRIFIC EXPLOSION AND THEY FELT THEMSELVES
    BEING HURLED THROUGH SPACE                                        20

  HE FELT HIMSELF PINIONED ON A PAIR OF LONG SHARP HORNS              40

  THE MAN MADE A GRAB FOR THE GREASED POLE AND DOWN HE WENT           60

  BILLY GAVE ONE LEAP WHICH CARRIED HIM AHEAD OF THE DOG              80

  IN THE VERY CENTER STOOD LITTLE DUKE                               100




_Night Grows Tired of the Farm._


Night had not been home more than three weeks when he commenced to get
restless and tired of the quiet life on the farm. It was such a change
from the adventurous, exciting life he had been leading that he did not
know what to do with himself. This going to bed with the chickens and
getting up with the sun, with nothing to do all day long but graze in
the pasture or sleep in the shade, did not suit him; so he whispered to
Day one day:

“This life is driving me mad. I am going away the first chance I get. I
have it all planned. Come over here by the stream and I will tell you
all about it.”

“Oh, Night, don’t go away and leave us! It will be so lonely without
you. Why! I think it is perfectly lovely here; it is so clean and
quiet, and then we know we are not going to be hurt or starved one day
and petted and stuffed the next, like we were when traveling.”

“I know, dear, but you are a girl and like the quiet, while I am a boy
and like adventures. Why! I like to get into scrapes just for the fun
of getting out of them. Besides, there is another reason why you like
it here. You need not think I have not noticed how that handsome goat
with the long hair and curved horns almost as long as my own, makes
sheep’s eyes at you, for I have. And so, Miss Day, you are in love. I
see you are blushing, for the inside of your ear is as red as blood,
and that is a sure sign a goat is in love. Well, how do you like it? It
is nicer than you thought when you took me away from Spotty, isn’t it?”

“Oh, Night! do forgive me. I never would have done it if I had thought
you felt as I do now. But I did not know then; and I wanted you all to
myself. I know I was selfish and jealous, but do forgive me, won’t you?”

“Yes, dear little sister, I will forgive you because I did not care so
very much for Spotty. If I had, you could not have kept me from her. I
would have found my way back to Madeira, if I had spent the rest of my
life looking for it. But you see, don’t you? that now you will be happy
and contented; father and mother don’t need me now that they have you,
so I am going out to see some more of the world and try to find another
goat as nice as you are to marry. If I do, I will bring her back here
and we will always live happily forever afterward, as they say in the
story books.”

“But when and where are you going, Night? Do tell me. And you will
surely wait until I am married, won’t you?”

“I am going West. I have heard all about the wonderful prairies,
plains, and mountains out there, where there are hundreds of thousands
of sheep, and how each flock has a large goat for a leader. Now it is
my ambition to be one of those leaders.”

“How in the world will you get there? It is thousands upon thousands of
miles from here, and you can’t walk all the way.”

“No, my dear, I know I can’t walk it, but I can walk part of the way
and steal rides occasionally, like the tramps do. I will get there
somehow, for I never failed to do anything which I made up my mind to
do if I stuck to it long enough. I can just see those immense mountains
lying so still and solemn, cut by innumerable bridle paths and cañons,
where the sheep seek shelter from the driving storms, protected from
the wolves that sneak down to devour them by their big billy-goat
leader. He gives the signal of danger and with the shepherd drives off
the hungry wolves.”

“For mercy sakes! don’t talk of going where there are wolves, for they
will tear you to pieces and I shan’t close my eyes until you get back,
I shall be so worried,” said Day.

“Don’t fear for me, sister mine. No old wolf will get the better of me
while I have two such long, sharp horns on my head as I now have. Why,
a wolf is nothing more than a wild dog, and you know how I treat ugly,
cross dogs.”

“I don’t believe father will let you go,” said Day as a last resort to
discourage his going.

“Oh, yes, he will. He was young once and liked adventures as well as I
do now; and mother won’t mind after a few days, because she has you.”

“Won’t mind. Well, I guess she will. Forty me’s can’t take the place
of you in _her_ mind; she is so proud of your strength and beauty. You
needn’t get conceited, but you know you are very handsome with your
silky black coat and long beard, almost as long as papa’s. Every young
nanny in the pasture has been making eyes at you since you came back.
Why can’t you fall in love with my chum, Belle? I am sure she is pretty
enough for any goat to fall in love with. And then you could live here
and not go away and leave us all again. I feel it in my bones if you go
you will never come back again. Do try to live here, Night, won’t you?”

“I would do anything for you, Day, that I could, but I couldn’t and
wouldn’t fall in love with that long-nosed, sheepish-looking Belle with
washed-out blue eyes, even to please you.”

“Oh, Night, she hasn’t washed-out eyes and she is considered a beauty.”

“Well, I don’t admire your taste. Whoever wants her can have her, for
all of me. Here comes mother and we must stop talking, for I don’t want
her to know I am going away until my plans are complete.”

Night had grown so much like Billy since he had been away that he was
no longer called Night but “Billy Whiskers Jr.”

Billy Jr. had taken to spending all his time by the fence that ran
along the roadside, and he was getting thin from watching so much and
eating so little. When his mother noticed this, she said:

“My dear son, why do you spend so much of your time down by the road
where the grass is dusty and scarce instead of here by the stream where
it is clean and fresh?”

“Oh, I don’t mind the dust,” he answered. “I stay there so that I can
talk to the horses, cows, and sheep that pass by.”

“But you are getting thin, and your coat is dirty and shabby from want
of care. And you act as if there was something on your mind. Can’t you
tell your mother what it is that is worrying you?”

At this Billy Jr. broke down and told her all his plans; how he was
longing to get away and go West; but he could find no one who could
tell him how to get there. All the animals that passed along had been
born and raised in the East and knew no more of the West than he did.
Nannie answered:

“You are just like your father was at your age. I have been afraid for
a long while that you were dissatisfied here; and though it will nearly
break my heart to have you go, still I will not forbid your doing so.”

[Illustration]

So Billy Jr. kept up his watch by the fence and at last was rewarded by
hearing this news: A loose colt from one of the neighbors told him that
a gentleman from away out West was visiting at their place and that he
had brought his horse with him. This horse told them all about the big
West every evening when they were all shut in their stalls; and he, for
his part, was crazy to go.

“That is just what I am crazy to hear about for I want to go there
myself. Can’t you kick the stable door down to-night so I can get in
and hear what he says?” said Billy Jr.

“Certainly I can, for my stall is the outside one, and I will do it
when I hear you bah outside.”

“Thank you very much,” said Billy Jr. “I will be there as soon as the
hired man has left the barn, so he won’t see me and drive me back.”

And for the first time in many days Billy Jr. ate a good dinner and
rolled and rolled in the clean sand to shine up his much neglected
coat, which, when he had finished, shone again like satin. As evening
drew on he was all impatience for it to get pitchy dark and for every
one to go to bed, so he could be off. At last he thought it was dark
enough for him to try it, especially as his coat was so black it was
not easily detected.

He jumped the fence where he and Day had jumped it when they had
returned from their travels and, turning down the road, he was soon on
his way to the neighbor’s to hear what the horse had to say about the
West.




_Westward Ho!_


Billy Jr. soon found himself at the neighbor’s, bleating for the colt
to kick down the door. This was done with two kicks and Billy Jr.
walked in and was introduced to the horse from the West.

“I am glad to make your acquaintance,” said the horse. “I hear you are
thinking of going West and would like to know something about it and
how to get there. I also heard that you thought of walking and trusting
to stealing rides on the cars if you could not get there in any other
way. Now I hate to discourage you but, strong and brave as you are, you
could not do it. You might get as far as the Great Plains, but these
you could never cross. You would die of hunger and thirst if not with
lonesomeness long before you had got a quarter of the way. Imagine
yourself on a vast prairie without a hill or a tree in sight; the
ground as level as if rolled out with a rolling-pin and covered with
sage brush and short buffalo grass, coarse as straw and dry as chips;
not a living thing in sight but a jack-rabbit or two and a buzzard
flying overhead waiting for your dead body. This buzzard has been
following you for he knows from experience that it won’t be many days
before you are stark and cold in death, either from hunger or thirst.
Or, if the worst should come to the worst, you might be torn to pieces
by a pack of prairie wolves as hungry as yourself.

“Sometimes cattle stray from the flock and try to cross the plains
alone and get as far as Dead Lake--a lake of alkali water that lies in
the desert. This water is as clear as crystal and looks so tempting to
the poor thirsty cattle that they often drink it, though all around
its margin are the bleached bones of other cattle that have drunk of
its poisoned waters and died. One can’t blame them for drinking, for
it looks so cool and refreshing to them as it lies there clear and
tempting, rippled by the breezes that blow over it. Oh, no! Mr. Billy,
better wait and content yourself here or get shipped through in a car
as I was.”

All this gave Billy Jr. some things to think about and he went home
feeling blue and depressed and almost ready to give up his cherished
plans. But next morning he awoke with the same burning desire to go,
and he made up his mind that faint heart never got anywhere nor did
anything, and he decided he would start anyway and follow the sun in
its direct course west day after day and see where it would bring him.
If it did not lead him where he wanted to go, it would at least give
him adventures, hardships, and pleasures, and they in themselves were
worth going after.

About 11 o’clock in the morning, while he was telling Day that his mind
was made up to start the next day at sunrise, he looked up and saw the
horse from the West turn into their lane with a fine-looking gentleman
on his back. He ran over to the fence to see if he could not get a word
or two with the horse. When pretty near to him, the gentleman stopped
his horse and Billy Jr. heard him say:

[Illustration]

“My soul! but that is a fine-looking goat. I would give a hundred
dollars to have him West to lead my flocks.”

“Bah, bah,” bleated Billy Jr., which meant, “You can have me for ten
cents.” As the gentleman rode on, Billy Jr. said to himself, “Oh, why
can’t people understand us as we can them? for then I could plead with
him to take me West!” And he walked off and butted an inoffensive goat
in his anger and tried to pick a quarrel with him. But the goat knew
Billy Jr.’s reputation too well and refused to fight.

Right after dinner Billy Jr. saw Mr. Windlass and the gentleman who had
ridden into the lane that morning coming into the pasture. He did not
go to meet them because he felt cross and disagreeable, so he stood
staring at them, chewing grass like an old man chews tobacco. However,
they came straight up to where he stood, and he heard Mr. Windlass tell
the gentleman how he and the white goat over there (pointing to Day)
had come to him one morning and he had never been able to learn to whom
they belonged or where they came from, though he had advertised in all
the papers.

“I had a black and a white kid a couple of years ago, but it is not
likely they could be the same ones grown up and come back.”

“I don’t know,” answered the gentleman, “goats are queer creatures.
Mr. Windlass, what will you take for him? I have been looking for a
big jet-black billy-goat to lead my flocks for a long time. The wolves
are getting pretty bad out West on the range and a goat makes a good
leader. I want a black one, as his color would distinguish him from
the white sheep immediately. Besides, your goat has other points in
his favor; he is strong, large, a good fighter you say, and has long,
sharp-pointed horns. Name your price and I will take him and have him
shipped West in the same car with my horse when I go. I will charter a
car and put feed in one end of it and have the other partitioned off
into two stalls into which I will put the goat and horse.”

Billy Jr. failed to hear what Mr. Windlass asked for him, but he heard
the gentleman say:

“It is a bargain and I will send my man for him to-night, for I expect
to leave very early in the morning for Boston to catch the westbound
train.”

“Hurrah! Hurrah! Papa Billy and Mamma Nanny, come here and hear what
glorious news I have for you. I am going West to-morrow!”

Nanny nearly fainted when she heard the news, it was so sudden, and
even staunch old Billy Whiskers shed a tear when he thought of his
gallant young son leaving them, perhaps forever. While for Day, she
just rolled over on the ground and cried, but was soon comforted by a
handsome young goat only a few months older than herself.

True to his word, Mr. Wilder, the Western gentleman, sent his man for
Billy Jr. just before dark; and when the goats saw him come through
the gate preparatory to leading Billy Jr. off, they all gathered round
to say a last farewell, and old Billy, Nanny, and Day all followed him
to the gate and watched him with streaming eyes through the palings
until he was out of sight. The man led Billy Jr. to the depot, and
there he was put into a freight-car with the Westerner’s pet horse,
Star.

“Hello, Mr. Billy Jr.! Glad I am to have you as a companion. You did
not expect to have such good luck as this when last I saw you. You will
find this beats walking all to pieces.”

“It certainly does,” answered Billy Jr. “This piece of luck is beyond
my greatest expectations.”

Just then the train gave a jerk forward and stopped suddenly, which
sent Billy Jr. off his feet, it was so unexpected, and bumped Star’s
nose against the end of the car.

“Well, I never!” said Billy Jr. “This is worse than the rocking of a
vessel for knocking one around.”

“Yes, and the worst of it is you can never tell when it is coming.
If one only could, he might brace himself for it and not get hurt,”
said Star. “I hear you have traveled a good deal by water and that you
were once shipwrecked,” said he. “Won’t you tell me something of your
adventures?”

“Some day I will, but now I want to ask you questions about the West.”

After a half-hour’s backing, switching, and jerking, the train at last
moved out of the yards and started on its way for the West, with a
bumpity, bump, bump and a clankity, clank, clank. Once out of the city,
it wound itself in and out among the hills and across country like a
huge, brown snake.

In this way they traveled for a couple of days. They enjoyed the
scenery of the Horse Shoe Bend in the Allegheny Mountains, which they
crossed; and they both speculated on what would become of them if the
train rolled from the track in rounding the curve and landed them at
the foot of the mountain thousands of feet below. Through the slats
of the car that had been left open they could see the country through
which they passed, and they stood and looked until cinders got in their
eyes and they grew too tired to stand still.

[Illustration: THERE WAS A TERRIFIC EXPLOSION AND THEY FELT THEMSELVES
BEING HURLED THROUGH SPACE.]




_The Collision._


Everything went well until about midnight of the fourth day out,
when Billy Jr. and his companion were awakened by a terrific crash,
a bumpity-bump-bump, and the door of the car broke from its hinges
and fell to the ground. At the same time there was a noise as if an
avalanche of snow were scraping and rattling on the top of the car.

“What do you suppose has happened?” said Billy Jr.

“I think either we have run into some other train or it has run into
us,” answered Star.

And the latter is what it proved to be. The freight was behind time
and an excursion train had tried to make the next station before the
freight started out. The consequence was that the excursion train,
running at a high rate of speed, did not notice the freight, which was
behind a deep bend in the road, until it was too late, and crashed into
it. Both engines were thrown off the track and two or three cars of the
excursion train were smashed to splinters, while one was suspended in
mid-air over a deep precipice of the mountain and the only thing that
kept it from going over was the coupling between it and the other car.

For a second after the crash everything was still; then the cries of
women and children were heard above the noise of escaping steam and
crackling wood, as fire spread from one car to another and added its
horror to the already disastrous wreck.

“Billy Jr., I smell smoke,” said Star. “You are not tied while I am.
Can’t you jump out and see where it comes from; for if the train is on
fire, what will become of me? I am tied up so tight I can’t possibly
get loose.”

“Try to pull back and break your strap,” said Billy Jr.

Star tried, but it would not break.

“I’ll tell you how; rub your head against the side of the car and try
to slip your bridle over your ears,” suggested Billy.

Star did this and the bridle dropped off. But he was no better off than
before, for he found himself boarded in his stall away from the open
door.

“I’ll tell you how you can fix that,” said Billy Jr. “You kick with all
your might and throw your body against the boards and I am sure they
will give way, for they are nailed on loosely from this side. While you
do that, I will jump out and see what is the matter and if there is any
danger of the fire reaching our car.”

So while Star threw his weight against the boards and kicked for dear
life, Billy ran forward to see how bad the wreck was.

He came upon a sight weird and appalling to the last degree. The night
was inky black, while the flames, as they licked up car after car, lit
up the landscape with a red glare like some scene at the theatre; while
for a background stood the tall, black mountains silent and still, like
sentinels around a bivouac fire. Running hither and thither were men
and women trying to save their companions from the burning train, and
many acts of heroism were performed, while lives were bravely risked
to save friend or stranger wedged in between the broken seats of the
smoking mass.

[Illustration]

Billy waited only to take one look and then he ran back to tell Star
that he must get out as soon as possible, as the flames were spreading
fast in his direction.

While Star was kicking at his partition with vehemence and Billy was
trying to help butt him loose, there was a terrific explosion and they
felt themselves being hurled through space. The car ahead of them had
contained some gasoline and when the fire reached it, it had exploded,
blowing up the car and the one next to it.

But, strange as it may seem, neither Star nor Billy Jr. were hurt
seriously. Star got a sprained shoulder and Billy a skinned leg, that
was all.

The wreck delayed them thirty-six hours, and while they were waiting
for the wrecking train to come to their assistance, clear the track,
and put the engines on again, Billy Jr. and Star had a fine time
roaming around the mountains and rummaging among the debris; or rather,
Billy Jr. did while Star stood off and watched.

Billy Jr. would nose around among all the broken boxes, packages,
trunks, etc., until he smelt some one’s luncheon; then he would eat it
up, pasteboard box and all, if he could not get the lid off. At last
he came to the remains of the dining-car, and amongst the wreckage he
found some fine apples and pears. He called to his friend, but Star
felt too timid to come at first until Billy persisted, but after awhile
he picked his way to where the apples were, half covered by the broken
pieces of the car.

While feasting on these the horse felt a hand laid on his mane, and on
looking around to see who it was he heard Pete, the man who had been
sent to take care of them, say:

“By all that is merciful, how did you and Billy escape from being
blowed to smithereens? I thought ye’s were both flying around the dog
star by now. But it’s mighty glad I am to find ye’s both alive, for me
master’s very fond of ye’s both and I wouldn’t ’a’ had anything happen
to ye’s for worlds while ye’s was in my care.”

Pete led Star off and, finding a piece of rope, tied him to a tree to
wait until another train was sent to carry them on, while he sat down
and commenced to smoke, too lazy to help clear away the wreckage. He
let Billy roam at will, for he knew he would not go far from the horse,
they were such good friends.

Presently they heard the purring and blowing of a train coming up the
grade to pick them up and carry them along on their journey. When Pete
heard it he said:

“It’s mighty glad I am to hear that, for I am as hungry as a bear, not
being able to ate tin cans and raw pertaters like you, Mr. Billy Jr.,
and grass and herbs like you, Mr. Star.”

The train presently reached them, and by the help of many hands,
everything was soon packed on board and they were off for the West once
more.

They did not have any more mishaps and reached Chicago one raw, windy
morning. As their train pulled into the yard, where it was to lie until
their car was switched on to the Santa Fe train that was to carry Billy
Jr. to the far West, he remarked:

“So this dirty, flat-looking city is Chicago, the far-famed first
World’s Fair city! Well, I don’t think much of it from what I have
seen.”

“Oh, but you shouldn’t judge any city by what you see of it from a
train, for remember, the tracks always run through the worst parts
of the city. You should see this city’s boulevards and parks. They
would make you change your mind, for they are among the finest in the
world. I saw them on my way East, for Mr. Wilder stopped here a week
and during that time kept me at a livery stable and every day he took
a horseback ride. In that way I saw all of the city, its handsome
residences, business districts, parks, and boulevards; and I can tell
you there are none finer, not even in your beloved Boston.”

“Don’t you think I could manage to run away and see it all?” asked
Billy.

“Not unless you wish to give up your trip West, for if you once left
this car you could never find your way back among all those hundreds of
others in the yard here that look just like it.”

“I could easily find my way back if that was all,” said Billy Jr., “but
the thing I am afraid of is that they might start West and leave me, or
switch you off to another yard where I could not find you.”

Their conversation was interrupted here by a man bringing them
something to eat and a bucket of water.

“I do not see why they did not run this car over to the Stock Yards so
these animals could have been taken out and fed and watered and their
car cleaned in proper shape,” Billy Jr. heard a red-headed man say, as
he pushed back the sliding door that shut them in. “For heaven’s sake!
I thought it was two horses we had been sent to look after and not a
car of goats,” as Billy Jr. appeared at the door.

“You can have the job,” said a jolly-looking, fat man. “I throw up my
share right here. I had all I wanted to do with goats when I was a boy.”

“Why, what did they ever do to you that you should take such a dislike
to them?” said the red-headed man.

“Well, I’ll tell you. The first thing they did to me when I was a
little shaver was to chew my hair off.”

“Chew your hair off! How in the world did they get a chance to do that?”

“It happened in this way,” said the fat man, “I went to sleep on a bank
by the side of the road one hot day, and when I woke up my hair was all
chewed off, and the old Billy had commenced on one leg of my trousers.
I stoned him good for this, but he got even a week after when he met
me coming home from one of the neighbors with a basket of eggs in one
hand and a pat of butter in the other. The first thing I knew I was
standing on my head in the pat of butter and the eggs were all broken
beside me with the basket turned upside-down. From that day on that
goat and I were enemies. He would do me a mean trick and I would pay
him back the first chance I got. But somehow or other he always seemed
to get the best of me. And this goat is as much like him as two peas;
and how do I know but what it is the same goat, though that was years
ago? Goats may live to be a hundred for all I know, and I don’t care to
take my chances; so I will attend to the horse and you look after the
goat.”

[Illustration]

As these words left his mouth Billy Jr. made a plunge for him and,
landing in the yard clear over his head, ran off and disappeared
behind some freight cars.

“Now, what did I tell you! He has got us in trouble right off, for most
likely he will never come back and we will have to pay for him. Drat
goats, I say! and double drat this one in particular!”

[Illustration]




_Billy Jr. Gets a Taste of the West._


Just outside the car yard fence was a Chinese laundry, and ever
since Billy’s car had been backed into the yard he had been watching
the Chinamen at work at the open door. So now that he was loose he
determined to get out of the yard and see what it was the Chinamen were
sticking their cheeks out with and blowing on the clothes.

When he appeared at the door it startled one of the Chinamen so that
he let all the water that was in his mouth and which he had intended
to sprinkle the clothes with, fly in Billy’s face. Now Billy thought
the Chinaman had spat in his face on purpose, and if there is one thing
more than another that will make a goat fighting mad, it is to spit or
even pretend to spit at him.

[Illustration]

With a plunge forward he butted the Chinaman through a curtained
partition that separated the front room from the back, knocking another
Chinaman that was bending over a washtub into the tub headforemost and
upsetting tub, Chinamen, and all. Then he quietly walked into the back
yard where some nicely starched shirts were hanging out to dry. These
he chewed until the two Chinamen tried to drive him out of the yard by
turning the hose on him. They had only given him one squirt when he
went for them and butted one into a limp heap in one corner of the
room, while the other took to his heels down the street, as if the old
man from the sulphur regions were after him.

On coming out of the laundry Billy Jr. heard Star whinnying for him in
a distressed, excited voice, and he bleated back, “I am coming, Star.
What’s the matter?”

Star answered back, “Hurry up or you will be left behind; they are
going to switch our car on to the Santa Fe train.”

Billy knew he would not have time to go around the way he had come, so
he crawled through a place in the fence where a couple of boards were
off, and gained his car just as it began to back out of the yard.

“Well, old fellow, where have you been? You look all wet, and you have
nearly given me nervous prostration by your absence. I have neighed and
neighed for you until my throat is sore.”

“I never heard you,” said Billy Jr., “for I was inside the laundry
seeing to a little washing,” and Billy Jr. commenced to laugh.

“What are you laughing at?” asked Star.

“At the funny frightened faces those pig-tailed Chinamen made at me
when they saw me coming for them. I wonder if the Chinaman I frightened
up the street has stopped running yet,” said Billy Jr.

“Tell me so I can laugh, too,” said Star, “for I know you have been in
mischief.”

While Billy was telling of his adventure the train started on its way,
westward ho.

The trip from Chicago to Kansas City was made without any excitement;
and after they had left Kansas City behind and were well on their way
across the state, Billy, who was looking out of his peephole, said:

“Well, I am glad I took your advice and did not try to walk or steal
rides to the West. I would have been a tired, foot-sore goat by this
time, if I had ever gotten as far as here, which I doubt. The map of
the United States I chewed up never gave me any idea of the distance
between the eastern states and the western. Look quickly, Star, at that
woman with a baby in her arm, coming out of that hole in the ground.
What on earth is she doing there? They don’t bury people alive out
here, do they?”

Star laughed and said, “No, she lives there. That is what they call a
‘dugout,’ and lots of people in Kansas live in them.”

“Well, when I have to live in a hole in the ground I hope I shall turn
into a groundhog and be done with it.”

“Mercy!” exclaimed Billy later, “isn’t it getting hot and oppressive in
here!”

“Yes, and it bodes no good for us, for I am afraid it is the calm
before the storm and that we are going to have a regular old-fashioned
Kansas blizzard or cyclone. Do you see that black cloud rolling toward
us from the northeast? Well, I think that is a Northeaster, as they
call them, bringing a sand storm with it.”

“Ugh! how cold it has grown all of a sudden. I feel chilled to the
bone, after that hot, stuffy air we have been having. And see how it is
raining off there.”

“Off there _now_, but in less than a minute it will be here; only that
is not rain but fine sand that will sting us like needles, blind us,
choke us, and nearly suffocate us before it blows over as suddenly as
it came. I know what they are like, for we passed through one on our
way East.”

Before Star had stopped talking the first particles of sand were flying
and had already shut one of Billy’s eyes and filled his mouth with grit.

“Oh, this is terrible! Why don’t some one come and shut our windows so
the nasty sand can’t sift in? I would not live in Kansas if they gave
me the whole state,” said Billy Jr., “if this is the kind of storms
they have here.”

Two days later they found themselves in New Mexico in sight of the main
range of the Rocky Mountains, and Star said that by three o’clock they
would be at Las Vegas, where their journey was to end. “And I shan’t
be sorry, for my legs ache from standing on them so many days without
lying down.”

They were met at Las Vegas by Mr. Wilder, who had been very much
worried about them since he heard of the wreck they had been in. But
his fears were laid at rest when he saw them, for both had come through
in fine shape and had stood the trip splendidly.

The next morning Billy was tied to a wagon filled with groceries and
provisions for Mr. Wilder’s ranch, whither they were bound, while Star
with his master on his back galloped ahead or followed behind as he saw
fit. Once when Star was walking beside him Billy said:

“Star, do you know I feel lonesome for the first time in my life. When
I look at those great solemn mountains, whose tops are always covered
with snow, I feel about as big as a fly and as if they were trying to
teach me a lesson in patience, and dear knows I need it badly enough.
How do they make you feel when you look at them?”

“I love them,” said Star, “and the nearer I get to them and the more I
look at them the nearer God seems to get. People think horses, dogs and
other animals don’t know about God, but I guess we feel His presence
more than they do sometimes, though we can’t talk about it.”

“How much further is it?” asked Billy Jr. “I hate walking behind a
wagon, taking all the dust from the horses’ heels. And this dust seems
to smart so when it gets in one’s eyes.”

“Yes, I know it does; that is because there is so much alkali in the
ground about here. Don’t you remember my telling you about Dead Lake
and the bones of animals you would see bleaching on its margin had you
tried to walk across the desert? Well, this is not a desert, but we
have to pass a small lake of alkali water, and, small as it is, you can
see the bones of animals lying beside it. There is very little water
out here, no large rivers, and only a few springs or little mountain
streams.”

“Quick! look off there toward the foot-hills; do you see that grey dog
running with a long loping trot?” continued Star.

“Yes, what of it?” said Billy Jr.

“Why, that is not a dog but a coyote or prairie wolf.”

“It is? I wish I had taken a better look at him,” answered Billy Jr.

Presently Star called out, “Cheer up, Billy. We are almost there, for I
can see the smoke now rising from the ranchhouse in the distance.”




_Billy Jr. as Leader of the Sheep._


Early the next morning a small flock of sheep was driven from the
corral, headed by their leader, an old mountain goat, who was always
selected to take out the new flocks for the first two or three times
and to break in the new leaders. And now it was Billy Jr.’s turn to
be broken in and taught how to lead the sheep and give warning of any
danger.

He found old Long Hair (so named from his exceedingly long hair) a
very agreeable, patient goat and willing to answer all the new goat’s
questions, which were not a few, as he wanted to know all about the
country and the ways of Western sheep. Billy knew he must keep up a
certain dignity or the sheep would never look up to him or have any
confidence in him. Soon he was to get their confidence and a name for
bravery in a way he least expected.

Old Long Hair had led them from the corral across the mesa and down
into a valley where a little water was to be found in the bottom of an
“aroya,” or deep ditch, which an Easterner would call a gully. It is
made by the water washing down the sides of the mountains and plowing
its way through the soft soil. When the flock got to the edge of this
aroya, Billy noticed that a large ram with immense double twisted horns
walked out of the flock toward him. But as he stood looking down into
the muddy yellow water thinking to himself that it would not be fit
to drink if he took the trouble to climb down after it, he forgot all
about the ram, until he heard a voice at his side say:

“Well, young fellow, what do you mean by coming along with this flock
without asking my permission? I suppose you know that I am master of
this herd and I don’t need the assistance of any dandyfied goat like
you. When I do, I will select one of my own choosing and not a stranger
and tenderfoot from the East.”

Billy Jr. laughed in his face and said:

“Don’t provoke me, old fellow, or I may give you a butt that will land
you in that muddy water.”

“What! You dare to speak to me like that, you--you impertinent
black-haired goat! If you dare to say another word I will hook you with
my strong horns.”

“And what do you suppose I would be doing while you were doing that?”
asked Billy. “What do you suppose I would be doing with my own long
horns about that time?”

“Look here, young impertinence, I don’t intend to stand here and talk
to you all morning, so be off with you.”

“Neither shall I waste any more time over you, Mr. Puffed-up, so take
that, and that!” said Billy, as he gave the ram two sharp hooks in his
side and sent him rolling to the bottom of the aroya.

[Illustration]

When he looked up he found that all the sheep had gathered around to
see how the bully of the herd was going to come out with the slick
black stranger. Billy made a bow to them and said:

“I would not explain to Mr. Puffer who I am, but I don’t mind telling
you all that I am the goat selected by your master to lead this flock,
and he brought me all the way from Boston to do it. He picked me out
because he thought I was a good fighter and could take care of myself
as well as protect you from the wolves, which he said were bad in these
parts. Now if any one of you thinks I can’t take care of myself and
would not make a good leader, I would like him to walk out of the flock
and say so, and we can fight it out while the rest of you look on and
see fair play.”

No sheep or goat walked out, and from that day until he left he was the
most beloved and admired of all the leaders the flock had ever had.

The next day Billy, as the acknowledged leader, determined when he
started out not to stop for water at that dirty aroya, but to push on
to the foot-hills and see if he could not find a nice, cool spring, or
at least some water that was not as thick with yellow mud as that they
had drunk the day before.

He let the sheep graze as they went, but he always managed to keep
ahead of them a few steps and in this way they unconsciously hurried
forward and by noon found themselves climbing the steep sides of
the foot-hills of the Rocky Mountains, which in comparison with the
main-ranges seem like little hills.

[Illustration: HE FELT HIMSELF PINIONED ON A PAIR OF LONG, SHARP HORNS.]

Billy left them to graze there while he climbed to the top so he could
get a view of the surrounding country and see what was in the
opposite valley. The sight that met his eyes was beyond description--in
the distance lay the main range of the Rocky Mountains, deep blue in
color with a white cap of snow on their heads; and shading down in all
the intermediate colors between deep purple, blue and pale gray were
parallel ranges of mountains. Directly beneath him a silvery stream
wound its way through a fertile valley, and nestled on its banks was a
small settlement of adobe houses where lived the Mexicans that farmed
the land.

He had only to turn around and at his back lay an entirely different
scene. This one was grand in its lonesomeness, with its plains and
mesas destitute of trees or life. Out across the barren prairie on a
tableland equally as barren lay Fort Union, now deserted, from which
the soldiers used to ride to fight the Indians. Whichever way the eye
roamed one saw height, space, grandeur which awed into stillness and
made one think of God. It was a silent sermon felt, not spoken.

Suddenly Billy was rudely awakened from his reverie. There, skulking
stealthily along behind some rocks and bushes, he detected a moving
object that seemed to come creeping, creeping nearer and nearer to his
sheep. He looked again more intently, and yes, sure enough, it was a
wolf he saw making for the flock. In a second the responsibility of his
position, which he had forgotten for a time, rushed upon him, and with
bound after bound he started down the mountain side. Only a moment he
halted to see if the wolf were still coming, and as he did so, a little
white, tender lamb ran on ahead of its mother right into the jaws of
death, for not twenty steps ahead crouched the wolf ready to spring.

The little lamb came nearer. The wolf crouched on his hind legs a
little more, opened his mouth, and sprang; but instead of his teeth
closing on the tender morsel, he felt himself pinioned on a pair of
long, sharp horns.

But Billy was also surprised to find on closer inspection that his
supposed wolf was not a wolf at all, but one of the half-civilized dogs
from the placita, or Mexican village. It seems that these dogs will
guard their own flocks from an enemy, but will sneak out and eat up any
young lamb that strays from the fold of a stranger’s flock.

After this the sheep were more fond of Billy than ever and would go
anywhere he led them without a murmur.




_A Fight With Wolves._


Several days after this when Billy was out in the mountains he noticed
that it grew suddenly cold and that light flurries of snow began to
blow and swirl through the mountain passes. He climbed to the top of a
peak whence he could get a good view of the clouds and saw, advancing
from the direction of the main range, a terrible black cloud that was
hurling snow and sleet on the mountains and valleys as it came.

It took him but a moment to decide what to do, for he knew if the young
lambs were caught out in such a severe storm they would be frozen to
death. So he turned back to the flock and told them to follow him as
quickly as they could and not to stop to take even a mouthful of grass.
He led them into the deepest, most sheltered cañon he could find and
told them to stand close together so as to keep each other as warm as
possible and to be careful to see that the young sheep and lambs were
on the inside where it would be the warmest.

Here they stood while the storm raged and blew over and above the
cañon, but the sheep were so sheltered that scarcely any snow fell on
them, as the force of the wind carried it over. It grew darker and
darker and time to go home, but Billy said:

“We will have to stay here all night. It will never do to go out in
such a storm onto the open prairie. Half of you would perish with the
cold before you got across the valley.”

So there they stayed in their little sheltered nook undisturbed until
about midnight, when they were startled by hearing the weird yelping
bark of a pack of prairie wolves coming straight down the cañon. This
threw the sheep into a terrible panic, for they knew that same pack of
wolves only too well; they had made raids on them before and carried
off a baby lamb and now and then an old sheep.

Now Billy had never met or even seen a wolf in his life, but he had
absolutely no fear of them, as he knew they were too much like dogs to
be afraid of. Still he did not know how he would come out fighting a
whole pack by himself, and from the sound of their voices it seemed as
if there must be at least fifty of them.

“Now all you rams that have horns make a circle around the sheep, and
if a wolf tries to get through in order to get at a young sheep, fight
for your lives and theirs and don’t give up and run off. While you do
this I will run here and there wherever I think a wolf is most likely
to break through your circle and kill them one by one, for I am not
afraid of any wolf I ever heard of.”

This stand of Billy’s gave them more courage, but they were so
accustomed to turn tail and run at the approach of danger that Billy
was afraid they would do so now at the first sight they got of the
wolves.

All this time the wolves had been drawing nearer and nearer, until now
only the bend of the pass separated them from the flock.

Soon the yellowish light of seven pairs of eyes glared through the
blackness. This was met by the fiery red light in Billy Jr.’s eyes.
The trembling sheep dared not move nor look up. Not so Billy! His
eyes fairly blazed defiance, and with a snort of rage he bounded on
the leader of the pack and killed him before he knew what had struck
him. Billy was so black the wolves could not see him; all they could
see were the red balls of fire that seemed to be here, there, and
everywhere, the most deadly balls they had ever come in contact with,
for wherever they appeared a wolf lay dead the next moment.

Billy heard a bleat of agony, and looking to where it came from saw a
dark object in among the white, and knew that a wolf had broken through
the ring he had formed for their protection and the old rams were
deserting their post and running away.

“Come back, you cowards!” Billy cried. “You will only be killed if
you go out alone.” This brought them to their senses and they closed
in once more around the sheep, but left Billy to do all the fighting.
This he did with a vengeance and to such good purpose that the wolves
commenced to slink away, wondering what kind of a leader these sheep
had in the place of old Long Hair.

[Illustration]

The next morning Billy Jr. led the sheep home, thinking it would be
better for them in the corral than out on the mountains until the
weather moderated, for they were not used to such storms in this
climate.

When Mr. Wilder saw Billy leading the flock home he went to meet him on
Star and said:

“Billy, I was not mistaken in taking you for a born leader. You are
worth your weight in gold. But it beats me where you hid yourselves
last night, for we looked for you and could not find one of you. And
then for you to come back out of such a storm without even a lamb
missing is remarkable. I wonder the wolves did not get after you and
kill some of the young lambs, even if they did not freeze to death.”
And Billy Jr. wondered what he would have said could he see the dead
wolves lying in the cañon.

Three days after the dead bodies were found by a man from another ranch
when looking for his sheep that had been lost since the night of the
storm and, seeing some small flecks of wool sticking to the side of the
rocks opposite, he knew why his neighbor’s sheep had not been killed
and his had. He immediately rode over and told Mr. Wilder, who rode
back to see where Billy had fought his brave battle and saved so many
lives. From that day on Billy was the hero he deserved to be and no
amount of money could have bought him.

As the sheep stayed in the corral the next day after the storm, Billy
thought he would try and find Star and have a talk with him. So he
jumped the low wall of the corral and soon found his friend in the
stable-yard chewing some corn husks.

“Hello, Billy Jr.! I am glad to see you,” said Star. “I have not laid
eyes on you for ages and I am anxious to learn what you think of our
Western country by this time.”

“Oh, I think it is good enough as far as the country goes for any one
who likes it, but I am tired of it and am going back to civilization.”

“What, tired of it already, and with all the honors you have had heaped
upon you!” said Star.

“Yes. I don’t like buffalo grass as a steady diet nor dirty cañon water
to drink. And those sheep are altogether too stupid to suit me. I would
rather live in a city; and that is what I have come to see you about. I
am not ready to go home yet, but I can’t make up my mind whether to go
to old Mexico or California.”

“Hear him talk, will you! He talks of going to old Mexico or California
as I would of going into the next pasture. But, my dear fellow, how do
you expect to get there? and are you aware that both of these places
are hundreds of miles from here?” said Star.

“Yes, I know they are, but what of that? If I want to go there I can
get there. All I have to do is to wish for a thing hard enough and I
get it. You know I made up my mind to come West, and here I am.”

“Yes, you are a plucky fellow, and I half believe that if we had not
brought you, you would have carried out your threat of walking here,”
said Star.

“You are right, I should,” said Billy Jr.

“Well, if you want my advice, I would go to old Mexico, as I think
there would be more of interest there for you than in California.”

“I don’t know whether to follow the railroad tracks or start across
country.”

“Oh, Billy! You will be the death of me, the way you talk of our great
distances as if they were only a few miles,” said Star.

“Here comes the man to chase me back to the corral and I suppose he is
wondering how I ever got out. I want to thank you for your kindness to
me and to tell you how much I have enjoyed your friendship, which I
hope nothing will ever break. I trust we will meet again in the East
some day. Good luck to you and good-bye for a time. When I see you
again I will have something of interest to tell you. Good-bye again,”
and Billy bounded over the fence as the man walked in the gate to chase
him out, while Star whinnied his good-bye.




_Billy Jr. Learns Something about Cowboys and Indians._


One morning three months later Billy Jr. appeared, tired, cold, and
hungry, in front of a ranchman’s door; and was first seen by the
Chinese cook, who opened the kitchen door of the long adobe house to
see what the weather was like. There was Billy by the well, trying to
get a drink out of the almost empty bucket on the well-curb.

Billy’s first thought when he saw the Chinaman was to run away,
for he had been so illy treated lately--shot at, stoned, and
half-starved--that he had lost some of his assurance and confidence in
people and preferred to look them well over before he got too near.
But the Chinaman appeared so inoffensive that he stood his ground and
stared back when the man rubbed his eyes to see if it really were a
large, live billy-goat by the well; his first thought being that he had
not quite got over his opium pipe of last night. But when Billy Jr.
bleated a good-morning to him, he came out of his stupor, walked to
the well, and drew a bucket of water for the tired, thirsty beast.

From that day Billy was a fast friend of the Chinaman. Never in his
life had anything tasted so good and refreshing as that cool drink of
water after his long, dusty trip across the plains and mesas.

For a day and a night Billy Jr. had followed a wagon trail without
passing a human being or habitation, and when he saw this ranchhouse
it was indeed a welcome sight. He was tired, lonesome, hungry, and
discouraged, and he knew that he must go back to the little town by the
railroad, the last settlement he had met with, if he did not soon find
a house and some living thing, man or beast, he could not endure the
dreary solitude another day.

He preferred the town to this, even if the boys did tie tin cans to his
tail, the women chase him with broomsticks or throw hot water on him
when he tried to steal a meal from their kitchens, and the cow-boys aim
at him to see how near they could come without actually shooting him.
Once, when he stopped to get a drink of water from a trough standing
outside of a saloon, the cow-boys caught him and forced him to drink
some beer, which made him feel dizzy and as if the sidewalk were flying
up and going to hit him in the face. And, oh my! what a splitting
headache he had all the next day! It made him wonder and wonder how
people could drink such nasty, bitter stuff when they could have pure,
clear water instead, and he thought if they had to pay five dollars a
bottle for water, perhaps they would crave it.

After these experiences, do you wonder that Billy was glad to find a
friend in the Chinaman?

When the potatoes were peeled for breakfast the next morning, the skins
were given to Billy, and they tasted as good to him, after his long
fast, as fresh turnips did when he was living in plenty.

Just as the sun lighted the tops of the mountains, the Chinaman rang
a large bell that hung on a high pole near the well, to call the
cow-boys to breakfast, and as its peals rang out on the morning air it
was answered by the barking of what seemed to be dozens of coyotes,
although, in reality, there was perhaps not half that number; a
peculiarity of their bark being that it seems to double itself and to
sound as if coming from twice as many throats as it really does. Billy
did not like to hear the coyotes, for their dismal cries made him feel
both lonesome and homesick.

Immediately after breakfast the cow-boys rode off to look after the
cattle and as soon as Billy saw them depart he gave a sigh of relief,
for when they were around they were always plaguing him and throwing
lassos or cracking their whips at him.

“Now, while the Chinaman is busy with his dishes and the cow-boys
are away, is my time to explore the premises and find out what things
look like around here,” thought Billy and, seeing an open door, he
walked through and found himself in a long, low room barren of carpet
or furniture, unless two tiers of bunks, a wooden chair or two, a
washstand with a tin basin on it, and a cracked looking-glass, could be
called furniture.

This room was in great disorder. Boots were lying around everywhere;
some in the bunks, others sticking out from under them, and still
others strewn about in general confusion all over the floor; and where
there were no boots there were clay and corn-cob pipes with half-empty
tobacco bags beneath them. None of these things surprised Billy, but
what did puzzle him was that between the windows there were a lot of
holes in the walls which were filled with old rags loosely poked in,
while guns of all sizes and descriptions hung on the walls or were
stacked in the corners of the room.

“This looks like a fort,” thought Billy, “but I fail to see who there
is to fight around here.” But, even as he thought this, he remembered
that Indians lived in this territory, and cold chills ran down his
spine, for although he was only a goat, he had often heard of the
unparalleled cruelty of the Apache Indian dwelling in this part of
the country and he at once realized why this house had been built
with holes in its walls and why all the guns were there. In case of
a siege, the cow-boys barricaded the windows and doors and stuck the
barrels of their guns into these holes, and then they were prepared to
resist an attack and to defend themselves.

Besides the room in which Billy stood, the house contained a
sitting-room, dining-room, kitchen, and a small room that was kept shut
up except when occupied by the owner during his yearly visits to the
ranch.

When Billy had reached this point in his explorations, he heard the
Chinaman calling, “Bee-lee, Bee-lee, Bee-lee.”

“I suppose that means me, so since he makes my name sound so much like
Bee, I will carry out the notion and make a bee-line for him,” said
Billy.

“Where-ee you been, Bee-lee?” said the Chinaman when he saw Billy
running toward him. “Come-ee long-ee in a here-ee; I have-ee something
good-ee for-ee you-ee,” and he gave Billy a piece of Johnnie-cake that
had been scorched in the baking-and which he did not want the ranchman
to see because of the wasted meal.

While Billy Jr. was eating, the Chinaman threw himself down upon a
wooden bench in the corner of the room, took two or three whiffs from
his opium pipe and was soon fast asleep, dreaming doubtless of his
almond-eyed sweetheart in the Orient. When Billy saw the pipe fall
from his hand, he took first a smell and then a taste of the powder
that had spilled out of it upon the floor; and soon he felt the most
delightful, drowsy sensation stealing over him, and he, too, curled
himself up by the bench near the Chinaman and was soon dreaming that he
was back in the old home meadow with his father, mother, and Day; but
the meadow he dreamed of was covered with sweeter clover blossoms than
any goat ever ate and the breeze that fanned his face was laden with
sweeter perfume than mortals ever breathed.

[Illustration]

Billy was rudely awakened from this beautiful vision by a vigorous kick
and on recovering his bewildered senses, he found the room filled with
excited cow-boys all talking at once. From their conversation he soon
learned that the Indians were out on the warpath and were even now
within sight of the house.

With wondering eyes Billy watched the boys board up the windows,
barricade the doors, and stick the gun-barrels into the holes in
the wall. Presently, he was driven into the sitting-room and to his
surprise he found that five of the cow-boys’ ponies had also been
driven in here for safety, as the boys well knew that the Indians would
steal them if left outside. He had no sooner entered this room than he
heard a loud bang, and a bullet flattened itself against the doorjamb
just as the Chinaman ran in carrying a bucket of water from the well;
for during a siege, water is a necessity for both man and beast, and
while the boys had been boarding up the windows from the inside, the
Chinaman had been busy filling an old barrel with water from the well.

“The red devils are upon us,” he heard a cow-boy say, and then the door
was slammed shut and he was alone with the ponies. While the bullets
sped thick and fast, and showers of arrows fell, all of which were
answered by the cow-boys’ bullets as they tried to pick off the Indians
skulking around the house, the ponies told Billy when and how the raid
began.

An old roan pony that had been on the ranch for years said, “When we
went out this morning to round up and count the cattle, Jim Dowsen, the
man who rides me, said, ‘Something has happened during the night, for
the cattle are frightened and restless,’ and when we got near them we
saw at a glance what was the matter.” And he proceeded to tell Billy
about the last raid of the redskins.

The Indians had ridden into the herd during the night, had stolen fifty
head of the company’s best cattle, and had ham-strung about fifteen
more out of wanton cruelty, because the savage nature delights in
torture. When Jim saw what had been done he was furious and he rode
off like the wind to find the herder who had been with the cattle.
After riding around the whole herd twice without discovering any trace
of him, he at last found him lying face downward on the ground, his
body without arms, his head minus its scalp. After mutilating him,
the savages had left him for the wolves and vultures to devour, and
then satisfied with their fiendish work had stolen his pony and ridden
away. Billy discovered that the Apache Indians were the most cruel and
fiendish of all the tribes living in the territories.

During all this time the fury of the savages had increased.

Before leaving the ranch, the redskins intended finishing their work
of destruction. They wanted pale faces. They wanted scalps. But most
of all, they wanted fire-water (the Indian name for whisky). And so
the attack lasted for three days or more. Provisions were getting low
within the cabin, the fuel to cook the meals with was gone, and the
horses were neighing for fodder, as they had been fed only potatoes
and cabbage once a day, and then as a last resort, straw out of the
mattresses; and still the Indians skulked outside and waited for the
little band of men in the house either to surrender or to starve.

The third night of the siege the boys began to lose courage. Constant
watching, loss of sleep, little to drink and less to eat had nearly
worn them out, while their enemies seemed to be in perfect condition
and acted as though satisfied to camp outside their door for the rest
of their natural lives.

At last, one of the cow-boys named Henry Staples said, “I have it,
boys! I know just how we can get out of here; save our scalps and, what
is better still, kill every one of those fiends sitting outside grimly
waiting to see our finish.”

“Don’t buoy us up with a fairy tale like that, Henry,” they all said,
“for it is too good to be true.”

“Listen and hear my plan,” he replied. “You remember that can of
rat-poison we bought to kill rats with when in town the last time?”

“Yes,” they answered.

“Well, let us take that rat-poison and put it in a keg of fire-water;
next, run up a flag of truce, then set the keg with seven or eight
cups outside. Thinking we are offering it in the place of a peace
pipe, the Indians will not hesitate to come and drink. They are used
to poor fire-water and so will be less likely to detect the poison and
will drink cup after cup until they are stupified, and in the end
the poison will kill them as surely as it would kill the rats. These
Indians are not any better than rats and should be treated as such.
Have they not tortured and killed hundreds of people?”

“You are right, Henry; we can at least try your plan. It seems the only
feasible way out of our plight, and it can but fail.” So they blew a
horn to attract the attention of the Indians and then hoisted a flag of
truce on the flag-pole at the side of the house where the United States
flag usually floated; and while the Indians were watching it, the
cow-boys set the fire-water outside with the cups on top of the keg;
then, through the peep-holes where the guns had been, they watched the
Indians confer together about coming forward to get a taste of the much
coveted fire-water.

Presently a big buck, evidently the chief of the tribe, walked boldly
forward and took a drink. He smacked his lips and then drew another
cupful, which he swallowed at one gulp. Upon seeing this, the other
braves ran up to get their share, for they did not know how much or how
little the keg might contain. When they found that it was full, they
commenced to dance around in high glee and they drank again and again
as if they could not get enough.

“I should like to shoot every one of them as they now stand,” said
Henry.

“No, don’t,” said the others. “Save your ammunition for live Indians.
These will soon be dead.”

The chief, who had taken the first drink, was now feeling the effect
of the potion and was becoming quarrelsome. He soon began to fight
with another big Indian and this led to the rest taking sides with one
or the other, and soon all were engaged in a grand melee, flourishing
their weapons in a most reckless and dangerous manner, regardless
of consequences, because the fire-water had gone to their heads.
Presently a young buck, half-crazed under the combined influence of
the fire-water and the poison, started for the door of the house and
tried to batter it down, forgetting all about the flag of truce, and
calling upon the other Indians to follow him and scalp the pale faces,
but, even as their arms were upraised to strike the door, they were
seized with cramps and violent pains. The poison had conquered at last
and soon all were lying around in every possible shape, twisting and
writhing in their death struggles.

[Illustration: THE MAN MADE A GRAB FOR THE GREASED POLE AND DOWN HE
WENT.]

In less than an hour every Indian lay motionless and the cow-boys went
out to take possession of their arms and ponies. Suddenly Billy saw an
Indian, supposed to be dead, stealthily rise and creep after one of the
boys who was bending over a dead brave unstrapping his cartridge belt.
For a second he saw a knife glisten in the sunlight and he knew that in
another instant it would be buried in the unsuspecting boy’s back.
With Billy, to see was to act, so without hesitation he rushed upon the
treacherous Indian and tossed him aside as if he had been a paper ball.
The knife dropped from his hand, for he had been killed instantly. One
of Billy’s sharp horns had pierced his heart. All the cow-boy said,
when he realized what Billy had done, was, “Billy, you have saved my
life and for this you shall have a collar of gold, with your name and
a record of your brave act engraved upon it.” The cow-boy kept his
promise, so ever after Billy wore his collar of gold.

A few days after the siege, Billy felt that he had seen enough of ranch
life and life on the plains, so he decided to return to town and from
there go to some large city as fast as his legs would carry him. “For,
if I stay here,” he mused, “other Indians may come to avenge those who
have been poisoned. They may take a fancy to my horns to decorate one
of their wigwams and may cut my head off, and then where would I be?
Who knows but what they may come this very night? Anyhow I have seen
enough of wild western life and I shall leave this country right now.
There is no time like the present,” and with this soliloquy he started
on a dead run for town by the same way he had come and he never stopped
to say good-bye even to the Chinaman.




_Billy Jr. and the Firemen._


The next we hear of Billy Jr. he is in San Francisco living, as his
father did before him, with an engine company near the outskirts of
the city. When first we spy him, he and another goat are stealing
vegetables out of the firemen’s garden. This other goat is an old
fellow with a stubby tail and a single horn, and although he eats a
great deal every day, anything and everything, from tin cans to rotten
potatoes, and has a digestive apparatus like an ostrich, he still
looks thin and shows every rib in his anatomy. Whether this lean,
gaunt, hungry look is because of a guilty conscience or the result of
ill-usage, I know not, but I do know that he is the homeliest goat any
one ever looked at.

Bang! goes a gun and the next minute four pairs of legs are flying over
the garden fence. “There, I told you we could not steal safely in broad
daylight,” said Billy Jr.

“Oh! I hope you don’t mind a little scare like that,” answered the old
goat. “Why, my sides are full of bullet holes. They are always firing
at me, but I simply caper round and round until they pick the shot out,
for it only goes in skin deep.”

[Illustration]

“Well, I can tell you I don’t care to have _my_ sides peppered like
that,” said Billy; “and, too, a bullet might go astray and put out one
or both of my eyes. But here comes that fireman I so detest. Let us
run and hide. I shall get even with him some of these fine days when
he least expects it, for he is always cutting me with that fine-lashed
whip that hangs in the engine-house. I don’t care how much he tries to
club me, for I can fight, butt, and run, besides when he has a club in
his hand he is obliged to come close in order to hit me, so that gives
me a chance to butt him, but a long-lashed whip is a very different
matter. It winds itself about one before he knows what is coming.”

“I, too, have a grudge against that particular fireman,” said old
One-horn, as the boys had nicknamed the other goat, “and if you can get
even with him I shall be your friend for life, for it was through him
that I lost my horn and you know it is as bad for a goat to lose a horn
as it is for a man to lose a leg. Come and lie here in the shade while
I tell you how I lost my horn.”

“That fireman,” the old goat continued, “had been persistently mean to
me for weeks; had put red pepper in my food until my tongue was nearly
burned out, had shaken snuff under my nose and on my beard until I had
almost sneezed my head off, had turned the hose on me until I was half
frozen, and had annoyed me in a hundred other petty ways, until I felt
that I could kill him with a clear conscience if I ever got the chance.
He was the largest of the firemen and a champion boxer, but I was not
afraid of that and resolved to watch for an opportunity when I might
catch him alone and then pay him with compound interest for all the
mean tricks he had played on me. One day I was lying here in the shade
half-way between sleeping and waking when I saw him come out of the
engine-house and start to cross the vacant lot you see before you, for
his home is on the other side. He was half-way across when the thought
struck me--_now is my opportunity_. He was alone and carried nothing to
protect himself with, so I jumped up and ran quietly behind him, the
soft turf deadening all sounds of my approach, and he never suspected
that I was near him until I gave him a vigorous butt that was the
master-stroke of my life. It sent him flying six feet or more straight
in the air. When he struck the ground he lay perfectly motionless for
a moment with the breath knocked completely out of him. He was only
stunned, however, for he soon raised his head and, seeing me, shook his
fist and fairly roared, ‘You confounded old goat, I’ll break every bone
in your old carcass for this.’

“I intended to let him alone after that, for I thought he had been
punished enough, but when he shook his fist and threatened me, I was
mad all over and I lowered my head and would have butted him again had
he not caught me by the horns, at the same time giving my head a twist
with his great muscular arm, that nearly broke my neck. This made me
furious, and I stamped and kicked and tried to get my horns loose, but
he held me tight, well knowing that it was dangerous to let me go.

“Well, we rolled and tumbled about in the mud until we were both nearly
exhausted, and at last he loosened his hold of my horns, at the same
time giving me a parting blow on the head that made me see stars for
an instant. In the meantime he started for home on a dead run, and
as a matter of course I lost no time in following him, but I did not
catch up until just as he was entering the front door of his home.
Then I aimed straight for his coat tails, but he shut the door with a
bang, catching my horns between it and the jamb; then he pushed with
all his might and main from the inside, while I too pushed with all my
strength from the outside, hoping to splinter the panel of the door,
but instead, I broke my horn, and that is how I lost it and why I owe
him a grudge.”

In the back yard of the engine-house stood a pump with a tub of water
under its spout. Billy Jr. went to get a drink from it and, while
quenching his thirst, heard one of the firemen say to two others
standing in the yard, “I’ll bet you can’t do it, though every one knows
he needs it badly enough.”

“Oh, it’s easy enough to wash him,” they answered, “the difficulty will
be in untying him after it is done, for then he will butt the life out
of the first man he catches.”

“Let’s draw cuts to decide who is to do the untying,” said a third.

“All right,” they answered; and before Billy even suspected what they
were talking about, he found himself bound and tied to the pump so that
he could only move his head slightly.

“So, it was me they were talking about,” thought poor Billy. “Had I
only known, they would have had a fine time catching me, and more than
one man would have had bruises and torn clothes.”

“Gee whiz!” he thought a moment later, “but this water is cold that
they are pumping upon me, and won’t I get even with them all when I get
loose!”

“Ouch!” cried one of the men, for Billy suddenly tossed his head giving
him a bump on the nose. Then two of the men began to use brushes, one
on each side, while a third kept the pump going; so, squirm and wriggle
as he might, Billy got a generous supply of water and was drenched and
shivering in spite of his efforts to free himself.

At last the firemen thought he was clean enough and they stopped
scrubbing, while one of them said, “Well, Billy Jr., how do you find
yourself?” Billy glared at him and shook his head in answer, but there
was murder in his eye.

Next the men drew cuts to decide who should untie him and, strangely
enough, it fell to the lot of the fireman who was always cracking his
whip at Billy and tormenting old One-horn. When this man found that he
was to untie Billy, he said, “Very well, boys, you all get inside of
the engine-house and shut the big door, leaving the little one open for
me to run through, but be sure to shut it quickly behind me or Billy
will be inside as quickly as I am.”

“All right,” they answered, and away they went to do as bidden. Then
the fireman who was to do the untying, approached cautiously and first
untied Billy’s legs, leaving his head still tied to the pump; then with
a sharp knife he cut the last cord with one swift slash and ran for the
engine-house. Quick as he was, our Billy was not far behind, for with
one bound he covered half the distance that lay between them while with
another he went bang against the little door through which the fireman
had but just disappeared.

The door was slammed shut in double-quick time, and had Billy’s head
not been a hard one it must surely have split in two when it struck the
door. However, it was made to withstand hard knocks and so, undismayed,
he backed off to gather impetus for another rush; and then with a last
plunge he split the door from top to bottom and landed in a confused
heap right in the midst of the astonished firemen, who scrambled in
all directions with more haste than grace, thinking only of getting
out of reach of Billy’s avenging horns. One man climbed up on the high
seat of the fire-engine, another ran down cellar, while the third, the
particular one Billy was after, bounded up the stairs that led to the
firemen’s bedroom, in which was an open hole with a greased pole coming
up through the middle for the firemen to slide down when an alarm of
fire was sent in. Billy was up the stairs and into the room almost as
soon as the man himself, who in mad haste made a grab for the greased
pole and down he went, leaving Billy rather doubtful as to what course
to pursue; but quickly seeing the impossibility of a goat’s trying to
slide down either a greased or any other kind of a pole, he bounded
down the stairs again. The firemen had to all appearances disappeared,
but Billy sniffed the air suspiciously and, glancing keenly first in
one direction and then in another, he soon discovered his pet enemy
seated on the hook-and-ladder wagon. This elevated position he wisely
forebore attempting to reach and, instead, took up a position where no
one could enter or leave the engine-house without passing him, and then
he calmly laid himself down and waited.

But the fates were against Billy Jr. and he was obliged to give up his
position or get run over. Just as he got comfortably settled, the fire
alarm rang out and each well-trained horse rushed to his allotted place
on engine, hose-cart, or ladder-wagon. As Billy saw the engine speed
away with his enemy holding on behind and trying to get into his rubber
coat, he said, “I have been cheated of my revenge to-day, but look out
for to-morrow, you red-faced lubber,” and with this parting threat he
trotted off to find his friend, old One-horn.

Just as Billy was coming out of the engine-house he came upon an old
German couple leading a dainty little Nanny-goat by a string. Now, it
had been a long time since Billy had met a pretty Nanny and his heart
fairly thumped with joy as he pranced up to make friends with her, but
here is where he made a mistake. In his joy at seeing her pretty face
he had forgotten that he must needs be introduced before approaching
a strange Nanny, and this young thing proved to be unusually timid,
so when she saw a big strange Billy-goat running toward her as if he
had known her since she was a baby kid, she promptly dodged behind
her mistress. Billy, nothing daunted, followed after her. As his head
appeared at one side of the old fat woman, Nanny’s appeared at the
other, and the faster she ran the faster he followed. This they kept
up until the poor woman was wound round and round by the cord, so that
she could not move and, being equally as timid as her little charge,
she at last fainted and fell forward on the walk, knocking Billy off
of his feet and throwing Nanny down upon her knees. When Billy saw the
mischief he had been the cause of, and also saw the old woman’s husband
coming after him with a thick club, he wisely disappeared round the
first corner, pondering in his mind over the foolishness of young kids
in general and of this one in particular.




_Billy, the Christmas Tree, and the Irishwoman._


The night before Christmas, Billy Jr. was prowling around, feeling
lonely and unhappy and wishing that he were back again with his father
and mother for the holidays at least. Chancing to look through a
window from which the light was streaming, what should he see but a
beautiful Christmas tree! And more wonderful still, who do you suppose
was trimming it? None other than old Santa Claus himself. Billy
quickly stationed himself directly in front of the window and gazed
with longing eyes upon the many attractive gifts being tied upon the
tree. “Oh, my! Just wouldn’t I like to get a nibble at that big red
apple hanging near the very top of the tree. Yes, and there is a fine
cornucopia filled with all kinds of goodies that I could eat if I had
the chance, and without a grain of salt, either.” But Santa Claus
continued his work, utterly unconscious of the greedy eyes blinking at
him from the outer darkness.

Presently Billy Jr. said, “I wonder whose house this is and how many
children live here.” Almost as if in answer to his question a quick
step sounded on the walk, and to his utter disgust, the hated fireman
ascended the steps and entered the house with his latch key.

“Well, I declare,” said Billy, “it’s a shame for a man like that to
have such a lovely Christmas tree. I’ll venture to say that Santa Claus
does not know how unkind he is to animals or he would never help him to
trim his tree.”

As soon as the last gift was disposed of, Santa Claus raised the window
to keep the room cool so that the tree might not wilt, then he quickly
put out the lights; and hark! I hear sleigh bells! Yes, there he goes
with his reindeer over the tops of the houses. Swiftly and merrily
he drives, stopping at every fireside to bring joy and some little
remembrance of his good will to all.

“Now that he has gone and the window is open, what is to hinder me from
climbing in and tasting a few of the Christmas dainties? I am sure a
few would not be missed and I can see my way clearly, as that electric
light across the street shines straight into the room, making it as
light as day. There is a packing box just under the window that I can
jump upon, and from that I can easily get into the window.” So, without
any more ado Billy climbed in and at once began to eat the dainties he
had coveted.

The first thing he took was the big red apple, then the cornucopia of
nuts and candies, next he licked a lemon-candy dog, after this he ate
a popcorn ball or two, then he spied a bunch of yellow carrots on an
upper branch. These he _must_ have (not knowing that they were made of
silk and to be used as a pin cushion). So he raised himself on his hind
legs and tried to reach them, but they were _just_ beyond his nose.
He gave a little spring, but missed again, and, worse still, his feet
struck the table which the tree stood upon and over it went, burying
the luckless Billy under it, while tin horns, candies, toy horses,
and all, rattled round him in hopeless confusion. The noise awoke the
fireman, and he and his wife came hurrying into the room, thinking to
find burglars. They did not see Billy, for as they opened the door he
jumped out of the window, and to this day they do not know _who_ upset
the Christmas tree.

One day when Billy was wandering idly about he saw one of the firemen
walking across lots, carrying a bundle which he knew was intended for
the washerwoman. Having nothing special to do, he followed and soon
overtook him. The fireman gave him a chew of tobacco and was surprised
to find that instead of spluttering, making a fuss, and spitting it out
of his mouth, he chewed it like an old-timer and seemed to enjoy it,
his beard going up and down in that queer way that men’s do when they
are chewing.

“Well, Billy, how are you, and how has the world been using you since
last we met? Let me see, the last time I saw you, you were trying to
decide whether to come down a flight of stairs or whether to slide down
a greased pole, were you not?” And with such pleasant converse the man
and goat walked along side by side until they reached the washerwoman’s
shanty. She was a jolly, red-faced Irishwoman, somewhat pie-crusty in
temper, but nevertheless an excellent laundress, and all would have
been well had not Billy accidentally tramped with his muddy feet on
some fine clothes that had been spread on the grass to whiten. Seeing
his footmarks upon the dainty pieces with which she had taken such
pains, she snatched up a dipper of hot water and threw it at Billy,
calling out as she did so:

“You miserable baste, if ye come around here with your dirty fate
again, a-spilin’ my nice, clean clothes, I’ll brake yer ugly neck fer
ye, that I will. Bedad it’s no fun doin’ thim fine petticoats agin.
Sure and it ain’t.”

Our Billy Jr., having the grace to see that he was at fault, and that
his carelessness had been the cause of making unnecessary work to the
irate Irishwoman, meekly turned away and returned home without waiting
for the fireman.

The next day Billy thought he would stroll back to the washerwoman’s
place to find out if she were still angry with him, and also to play
some trick upon her (if he could) in return for the throwing of the
hot water. He first peeked through a crack in the fence to see if she
were hanging out clothes, but not seeing her, he crawled through a hole
where some boards had fallen down and, keeping a sharp lookout about
him, he caught sight of her coming from the kitchen. He kept out of
sight until she disappeared within a neighbor’s house, then he walked
straight to the kitchen door, stuck his head inside and, as no one was
about, he boldly walked in to see if he could find what it was smelt so
good. He had not far to look, for just before him stood a table, and on
it was placed the mid-day meal which the washerwoman had prepared for
her husband.

“My, but it smells good and I am as hungry as a bear,” and Billy,
without a twinge of conscience, helped himself to the nice, mealy
potatoes, cabbage and cornbeef, and the bread, even licking the crumbs
from the plate, and leaving only the empty dishes for the poor hungry
husband.

Just as he was taking a last reluctant lick at the cabbage plate, he
heard some one coming and, in turning quickly to escape, he upset a
clothes-horse full of clothes so that they fell upon the stove, where
they soon caught fire, and the flames spreading to the woodwork of the
shanty, the whole structure was in a blaze before you could say Jack
Robinson.

Billy escaped without even singeing a hair and started on a dead run
down the block. When he finally turned to look back, flames and smoke
were pouring from windows and doors, while the poor laundress stood
in the yard wringing her hands in sore distress, and watching all her
earthly belongings go up in smoke.

“It’s too bad,” said Billy; “I did not mean to burn her home; I only
intended to annoy her and eat her husband’s dinner; but, never mind,
there go the firemen to the rescue. They will soon put out the flames,”
and with a whisk of his tail Billy ran off to look for more mischief.

Billy was growing tired of the location in which he lived, so he
decided to leave the firemen and seek a more fashionable quarter of the
city, consequently he selected Knob Hill as being quite to his liking.
When the firemen went to feed Billy, one morning, he was nowhere in
sight. They whistled again and again, but there was no response. He
came neither to luncheon nor to supper, but the men thought nothing of
this, as he often absented himself for a day or two at a time, but when
three, four, five, and six days passed and still Billy did not make his
appearance, they felt sure that he had been stolen or had wandered off
and been shut up in some barn. They waited a day or two and finally
advertised for him by nailing up a large red poster illustrated with a
handsome black goat, and offering a liberal reward for his return or
for information as to his whereabouts.

Billy laughed way down in his whiskers when he saw the gorgeous poster
and the representation of himself, and then he walked up and tore it
off the boards. But while in the act of doing this he was recognized by
a lot of boys as the goat advertised for, and they quickly pursued him,
hoping to claim the reward offered. Need we say that before they had
finished with Billy they wondered who in the world could want such a
goat? As for themselves, they would have been glad to pay to get rid of
him.

Two boys finally got a rope around his neck and thought themselves
wonderfully smart for doing so, but they little dreamed that our Billy
had allowed them to do it for a purpose of his own. As soon as the
rope was securely tied and the boys had a tight hold of the ends, he
started, and now the fun began.

Billy was a sturdy fellow, possessed of a certain grim sense of humor,
so in a seemingly guileless, innocent manner he lowered his head
and trotted along at a steady gait, choosing all the rough, stubbly
places in the road, never missing a mud-hole, never passing an ash
heap; through the one, over the other he went, dragging the boys
after him, and when they attempted to hold him back or to stop him, he
simply quickened his pace and went flying through narrow alleys, over
and amongst heaps of rubbish, jerking them to their feet at times,
or upsetting them with scant ceremony, as the case might be, so that
finally rope and boys became hopelessly entangled, and the boys could
not let go if they would, but were completely at Billy’s mercy. But, at
last, the rope got twisted around a lamp-post and then it broke, giving
the boys their liberty very suddenly. By this time they had lost all
thought or desire for a reward and Billy left them with a satisfied
twinkle in his eye and a subtle smile well hidden under his long
whiskers.

[Illustration]




_Billy Jr. Has Some New Experiences._


On his way back to Knob Hill, Billy passed a magnificent mansion with
shades down and the gas lighted inside.

“Now, what in the world is the matter with the people who live there?”
he mused; “are they lunatics that they close the curtains, shut out the
sunshine, and then light the gas at three o’clock in the afternoon? And
what is that long tunnel-like, canopied passage that extends from the
curbing to the front door? I believe they call it an awning. It is not
raining, what do they want it for? I must get nearer and see about it.”
So Billy walked to the side opening in the awning and looked in. The
front door of the house was wide open and he could hear the strains of
a mandolin orchestra from within, while the perfume from many flowers
was wafted to his nostrils. Not a person was in sight.

“How strange,” thought Billy, “to leave a front door wide open and no
one to watch it! Guess I will walk up and see how it looks inside.”
Accordingly he walked bravely up to the door and looked in.

Such gorgeousness he had never even dreamed of. There were flowers and
palms in bewildering profusion. There were draperies and furniture of
Oriental magnificence, and hundreds of electric bulbs with shades of
varied colorings which lit up the scene, while soft, dreamy music made
one feel as if he were indeed in fairyland. As in a dream Billy walked
up the broad flight of stairs leading to the second floor and from the
first room to the right he could hear voices and subdued laughter,
while from an adjoining room came the admonition, “Girls, stop
chattering and finish dressing, for your guests will soon be here.”
Then Billy knew that an afternoon reception was to be held here and
that was why the shades were drawn and the gas lighted; for it is not
fashionable to have sunlight at these affairs. Complexions and gowns
look better by gaslight.

When Billy heard the voices, he turned and walked into the front room.
This apartment was furnished in keeping with the magnificence of
the parlor floor. White woodwork, mahogany chairs and table, a high
four-poster bed with satin and lace coverings, silver toilet articles
on the dresser, silver and cut glass vases everywhere filled with pink
roses and white hyacinths, and again, a multitude of soft-tinted lights
which enhanced the beauty of everything the eye rested upon.

[Illustration: BILLY GAVE ONE LEAP WHICH CARRIED HIM AHEAD OF THE
DOG.]

“The scent of the flowers reminds me of the clover in the meadows. I
must have a taste of them.” So Billy tasted and then ate one entire
bouquet, for the flavor was so fine he could not stop at one bite.
Then, beginning to feel the effects of his wearisome escapade with the
boys, and lulled by the warmth, light, perfume, and music surrounding
him, he jumped up in the middle of the beautiful bed, and stretched
himself out on the exquisite pink satin and lace coverlet preparatory
to enjoying a good rest. Nothing was too good for the use of Billy Jr.

When the first guests entered the room they scarcely glanced at the
bed, going first to the mirror to adjust their hair and repowder their
noses. Suddenly, one of the ladies dropped the comb with a clatter,
her eyes nearly dropping from their sockets and her face blanched with
surprise and fear, for, reflected in the mirror, she saw two long horns
suddenly raised from what she had supposed to be a black fur coat,
and, screaming at the top of her voice, she turned and stood staring
with open-eyed wonder at the sight before her. Her screams brought
the entire household scrambling to the scene. She could not explain
but dropped into a chair, completely overcome. Words, however, were
needless, for there stood Billy in the middle of the great four-poster,
self-convicted, and quite as surprised as any of the onlookers. For a
moment he did not know which way to turn, but finally, seeing a door
opposite the one in which the people all stood, he jumped for that
and from there made his escape into a small room which connected with
the hall. Down the steps he went, upsetting the fat butler with whom
he came in contact on his way down and, without pausing to offer his
apologies, hastened into the street and hurriedly left the neighborhood.

[Illustration]

The goat episode was the main topic of conversation that afternoon
among the fair five hundred, and Billy would have been flattered could
he have heard himself described as “fierce-looking as a lion and as
large as a bear.”

After Billy Jr. left the house where the reception was being held, he
wandered around not knowing where to go. He began to feel lonesome
and hungry and almost wished he had stayed with the firemen and old
One-horn, even if his life with them was a monotonous one.

Presently, all thought of lonesomeness and hunger was driven from his
mind by the sight of some boys coming around the corner whipping a
large St. Bernard dog that was hitched to a little cart. When they saw
Billy, they cried:

“Oh, see the dandy goat. Let’s catch him and hitch him up to your cart,
Ned, and have a race. What do you say, is it a go?”

“You had better let them catch you, stranger,” barked the dog, “or they
will club and beat you when they do get you.”

“Not until I have given them a chase,” bleated the goat, and with that
he stood as if he were going to be an easy catch, until they tried to
put their hands on him. Then he stood on his hind legs and whirled
round and round like a circus-goat, facing them all the time between
the whirls, so the boys did not know how to get hold of him in this
position, besides they were afraid he would butt or kick them.

All this pleased the dog immensely and he laughed until his sides
shook. Presently, Billy Jr. heard cart-wheels on the sidewalk and he
knew Ned was returning with his cart. As the boy approached, Billy
Jr. converted his hind legs, which he had been using as stilts, into
kickers. Then with a bleat that meant “Oh, no you don’t,” he jumped
over the low iron fence beside which he was standing and disappeared
round the corner of a big brown-stone house that stood in the middle of
a large yard, while, of course, all the boys came tagging after. Hero,
the St. Bernard dog, forgetting the wagon he was hitched to, jumped
too, breaking loose as he went over the fence.

As Billy rounded the corner of the house, he ran into the laundress,
who was carrying in her arms a big basket of clothes piled so high that
she could not see what hit her, until she found herself flat on the
ground with her basket overturned beside her.

“Now, see what yees have done wid yer ugly black goat a-goin’ and
upsetting all me clane clothes, and the missis that particular as never
was. Bad luck to yez. Take him away,” she called, as she saw Billy
coming toward her again. Billy expected to run round the house and come
out on the street, but he was unable to do so, as the opposite side of
the yard was enclosed by a high fence which he could not jump; and here
the boys cornered him. He was going to butt them and get away, but the
St. Bernard barked to him to let himself be caught and then they could
have a race and see which could run the faster.

When Hero proposed this he, of course, thought he could beat Billy and
not half try, or he would not have suggested it. Billy Jr., on the
other hand, was sure he could beat Hero, so he let himself be caught
and led into the front yard where he was soon hitched to Ned’s cart,
while Hero was re-harnessed and hitched to another by Will, his master.

Soon the dog and goat were ready for the race and they were led into
the middle of the street, Ned and Will each in their respective carts,
and the other boys standing around ready to follow them when they
started. A boy stood at the head of each animal, letting go when the
word was given. Both the goat and the dog started at such a pace that
the boys lost their hats and came near being thrown backwards out of
their carts. Billy gave one leap which carried him ahead of the dog and
jerked the cart along on its back wheels. Away down the street they
sped, dodging wagons whose drivers stopped and stuck their heads out at
the sides to see the fun. Hero, who was fat and short winded, seeing
that he would have to do his best, ran with his tongue hanging out of
his mouth, panting for breath, while Billy Jr., who was slender and in
fine condition, closed his mouth and ran swiftly as an antelope, coming
out way ahead.

“Hurrah for you, Billy! I shall take you home with me and keep you, for
I consider you a good friend and you shall have the best supper you
have had in a long while.” Billy Jr. bleated his thanks and added that
it could not be given to him any too quickly, as he was both hungry and
thirsty. “Before I go I want to tell Hero that I would like to have
another race with him some other day when he is in better trim, for I
beat him too easily this time.”

Hero thought Billy was bragging about his victory, so he said the
reason he had not beaten was because his collar was so tight that he
could not get his breath. “Besides,” he added. “Will is much heavier
than Ned.”

“Oh, if you think that is the reason,” said Billy Jr., “come out
to-morrow and I will run you a race without any carts for a couple of
miles instead of one, and then we shall see who will win.”

This was all the conversation they had, for Ned led Billy off, fearing
the other boys might want to take him away from him. They said he had
no more right to the goat than they had, as he was evidently a stray
goat.

“That’s all right,” said Ned, “but none of you fellows have a wagon, so
I guess I will keep Billy until his owner turns up and claims him, and
I am ready to fight the first boy who meddles or tries to take him away
from me.” This settled the matter, for Ned could whip any of the boys
in that gang.

Billy Jr. stayed with Ned for about a week and every day they had
a race, or the boys played they were firemen and harnessed Billy to
their hook-and-ladder wagon and made him pull it to where they played
the fire was. After a day or two, Billy thought this was too much like
work; there was no fun in it for him, besides Hero would not speak to
him since he had beaten him in every race they had run, so he decided
to go away and look for another home.

It was three nights after this before he found a chance to slip out, as
he was shut in the stable every night in one of the box stalls. This
night the coachman forgot to latch the sliding door to his stall, so
when the man went to supper Billy pushed it open and slipped out into
the coach-house where, as luck would have it, he found the door open
into the alley, and out of it he went, not stopping or turning around
until he reached the stable where Hero lived. He would not have stopped
here, but Hero smelled goat as he passed and barked to Billy, “Is that
you, Billy Jr., out at this time of the night? You must be running
away.”

“You are right, I am running away and I’m never coming back, so
good-bye, Hero; when I see you again I expect you can beat me, for by
that time I shall be so old that any dog can do so.”

“You impudent goat, I shall not wish you good luck after that remark.”

Billy, chancing to look back down the alley, thought he saw a boy
running in his direction and, for fear it might be Ned, he hurried on
and turned out of the alley into the first street he came to. He had
gone but a few feet when he saw one of the boys that always played
with Ned coming in his direction, so he dodged into the next alley
and hid behind a garbage box until the boy had crossed out of sight,
then he came out and began to look for some friendly stable that he
could enter. It was beginning to storm and soon the rain came down in
torrents. Vivid lightning flashes were followed by loud rumblings of
thunder, and although Billy was a hardy goat, still he was deathly
afraid of thunder storms. He quickened his pace, passing stable after
stable, but all were closed to keep out the rain and not even a back
yard gate was open so he could run in and get under a wood-shed or
porch.

It grew darker and darker each moment; the lightning became more
frequent and more vivid, until poor Billy was all in a tremble.
Suddenly he spied an over-turned packing box lying close to a stable,
with just room enough for him to squeeze in between. “Well, this is
better than nothing,” he thought, so he squeezed himself in and was
about to lie down when he heard a low growl, and the next flash of
lightning revealed to him another occupant of the box--a little yellow
dog with a stubby tail and blazing eyes.




_Billy and Stubby._


“Well, what are you doing here?” said Billy.

“That is the question I was about to ask you,” replied the dog.

“I came in to get out of the rain because all the other places were
shut,” said Billy Jr.

“And I came here because I live here. This is the only home I know,”
answered the dog.

“Oh, if that is the case I will be going, as I do not wish to intrude.”

“You are perfectly welcome to stay and share the shelter of my home,
poor as it is,” said the dog, whose name was Stubby.

“You are exceedingly kind,” replied Billy. “I will gladly stay if only
for your company. I hate being out alone in a thunder storm.”

After this they became very well acquainted and prolonged their talk
far into the night, exchanging confidences and experiences.

As you all know Billy’s history, I will not repeat what he told the
dog, but will confine myself to the sad story of Stubby’s life.

[Illustration]

Stubby was undoubtedly of common parentage with not a drop of blue
blood in his veins, but he had plenty of good red blood, so he did not
care, only he often thought it would be very nice to be petted and fed
as thoroughbreds were. This wish, however, only came on days when he
had nothing to eat but a piece of mouldy bread from the garbage box
and nothing to drink but water out of a mud puddle. On other days he
would not exchange his lot for that of a King Charles lying on a satin
cushion on my lady’s lap, for what did the King Charles know of real
life or freedom, shut up in my lady’s boudoir, or taken for a walk at
the end of a silver chain?

No, he would not change his free, roving life and home in a packing box
for all the satin cushions in the world. He felt that he should sicken
and die shut up in a home, fed on bonbons, and only allowed to run to
the length of a short chain. To be sure it must be nice to have for a
mistress a pretty lady who would stroke you with her soft white hand,
or a sweet little girl to romp and play with, but one could not have
these joys without the evils of being shut up in an overheated house,
and that he knew he could not stand.

He had been born under a barn standing in the suburbs of San Francisco.
His father he had never seen and his mother was a small yellow dog like
himself, only she had a tail that curled in a beautiful manner once and
a half times round, of which she was very proud. His tail had curled in
this same way until some bad boys caught him and cut it off.

“Oh, I tell you, Master Billy, you don’t know what it is to knock
around the world and be only a poor little yellow cur that every one
delights to kick and stone, although he has done nothing but mind his
own business. You see, though you have traveled a great deal and seen
more of the world than I have, still you have not bucked up against
its cruel side as I have. One reason is because you are so big and so
strong that people dare not hurt you, while as for me, I have been so
small and so homely that any bad boy or man could be cruel to me and
not be afraid of getting hurt for it.

“I had had my eyes open only for a few days when my mother told my
brothers and sisters and me that if we wanted to get on in the world we
must not look for justice, or bite when we were abused, and she said
that we must endure all things, be patient and return good for evil. I
remember this talk distinctly because it was the last we ever had with
her, for the very next day a boy crawled under the barn and took all my
brothers and sisters and myself in a basket and carried us to the river
bank, where he tied a stone to each of our necks and then threw us into
the water to drown. Somehow, he did not tie my string tight enough,
and when he threw me into the river the weight of the stone untied
the string and let me loose, so when I reached the bottom, instead of
staying down like my brothers and sisters, I came to the surface and
then swam ashore. I never knew I could swim until I found myself in the
river, and then, instinctively, I struck out as if I had been swimming
all my life, just as all animals do when thrown into the water for the
first time.

“When I reached the shore the boy had gone, for when he saw us
disappear under the water he thought we would never come up. I rested
on the bank in the sun until I got dry, quietly crying for my kind
little mother, for I knew I never could find my way back to her. I saw
a house a short distance away with a barn and barnyard at the back, so
I crept under the fence into the back yard and went to sleep beside a
straw-stack. For supper I had only a little milk that I lapped up from
the ground where the girl had spilled it when milking. Of course I got
more dirt than milk, but I was afraid to go nearer to the house for
fear of being abused.

“The next morning the hired girl came out to milk the cow and I made up
my mind I would try to make friends with her, so I commenced by giving
a little low bark to attract her attention as she sat milking. She
turned around quickly and said, ‘My goodness, how you scared me! Where
did you come from, you poor forlorn little thing?’

“Her voice reassured me, so I ran straight up to her and she patted me
and said, ‘There, don’t look so frightened, no one is going to hurt
you.’ When she went to the house she called to me to follow her, which
I was very glad to do, and she gave me a saucer of nice, warm milk,
which I was very much in need of, being both cold and hungry.

“Well, from that day until I was stolen by a tin peddler, I stayed
there and was petted and fed as if I had been a dog with the bluest of
blue blood in my veins. But what a life I had of it with that lying,
cheating tinker, until he at last sold me for five dollars to a young
lady who had taken a fancy to me, mostly from pity, I think. From this
lady I learned many tricks and was dressed in a blue blanket and tied
with blue ribbons, which I tried to lose off or else rolled in the
mud with, every chance I got. Some boys stole me from her, finally,
and they cut off my beautiful curly tail, the only thing about me that
was beautiful, although the young lady used to say, ‘Stubby, you have
the loveliest eyes I ever saw in a dog’s head. They certainly look as
if you had a human soul, and you make me wonder what you are thinking
about.’

“After the boys stole me, my luck went from bad to worse until I had
to hide in the daytime and only look for food at night. I was stoned
and kicked so that at last I gave up trying to find a good master or
mistress and I hid in alleys, sometimes sleeping out in the rain and
cold without any shelter but the sky or anything softer than a board to
sleep on, so when this old packing box was thrown out into the alley I
hailed it with delight and have lived in it ever since.

“You see my story is only a pitifully uninteresting tale beside your
life history.”

“Forget the past,” said Billy Jr. “That is gone, and in the future we
will live together and see what good we can get out of life. What do
you say to leaving the city and going out into the country? It is much
cleaner there, while there is less chance of being abused or of getting
shut up where we won’t be free to come and go as we please.”

“Very well,” said Stubby, “I am longing to get into the country once
again. What direction shall we take?”

“South,” replied Billy Jr. “Let us try to find our way to Old Mexico,
where it is nice and warm the year round.”

“That is a splendid idea,” said Stubby. “I, too, am tired of the cold.”

“It is too bad that dogs can’t live on grass and the things that goats
can, for then you would not have to go hungry so often. I believe I
could live on old shoes and straw if I could find nothing else to eat,
although I don’t say I should relish them much,” said Billy.

“Oh, I can live on very little, so don’t worry about me,” said Stubby.

At the first peep of dawn the two friends left the old packing box and
started on their long journey to Old Mexico.

[Illustration]




_Small Adventures._


Six months later we find Billy Jr. and Stubby near the City of Mexico,
on a large stock-farm, where are raised fierce, blooded bulls intended
for the bull-fights that take place every Sunday in the City.

It would take too long to tell of all the troubles and mishaps the
two friends met with on their long journey from San Francisco to Old
Mexico, but with all their trials they enjoyed it, for both were good
travelers and made the best of things without complaining when matters
could not be helped.

Once Stubby came very near getting drowned in a fierce mountain stream
that had become swollen from recent rains until it was twice its usual
size. Caught in one of the whirling eddies, he was spun round and
round until, dizzy and sick, he could not open his eyes, and had not
strength enough left to swim against the strong, swift current. He was
just giving up hope when he felt some large object strike his side
and, opening his eyes for an instant, he saw Billy Jr., who swam out to
rescue him.

“Climb on my back, Stub,” Billy cried, “and I will swim to shore with
you.” Stubby did as he was bidden and soon they were shaking themselves
dry on the bank.

[Illustration]

Another mishap, one in which Stubby was the hero and saved Billy Jr.’s
life, occurred one moonlight night out on the plains. They were both
sound asleep when Stubby was suddenly awakened by hearing a peculiar
rattling sound and, looking about, he was horrified to see a snake
just ready to spring upon Billy, who was sleeping peacefully. With a
bound, Stubby had the reptile by the neck and in a second had shaken
him to death. In fact, he had given him such a crack that the snake’s
head nearly flew off. Small dogs have often been known to kill snakes
in this way. Billy Jr. was very much surprised when he awoke and saw
a big snake lying under his very nose. Stubby had dragged it there to
see what Billy would do when he saw it. Had it been alive Billy would
surely have been bitten, for he was too much surprised to move. He
stared at it with blinking eyes to see if his sight was not deceiving
him. When he discovered that it was really a snake he ducked his head
and hooked it away.

“Did you see that rattlesnake, Stubby? I had a pretty close call,
didn’t I?”

“Not so very,” said Stubby, “for dead snakes do not bite.”

“That was no dead snake, for it was not there when I laid down, and
dead snakes do not crawl.”

“You are right there, Billy Jr., but that snake was dead and I ought to
know, for I killed it and dragged it there just to scare you.”

“Oh, you did, did you? and where did you find it?”

“I found it about three feet from your head ready to spring upon you,
so I made a spring first and killed it before it had time to bite you.
After I killed it I put it under your nose for fun.”

“You are a brick, Stubby, that is what you are; a regular gold brick,
and I will not forget this in a hurry. I hope some day I shall have a
chance to do you a good turn or save your life.”

“Well, don’t lay awake nights trying to think of some way to help me,
for you have already saved my life once, when you pulled me out of the
whirlpool,” said Stubby.

One day when they were trotting along the foot-hills of the Sierra
Madre mountains, tired and footsore, hungry and cold, feeling
thoroughly discouraged and as if they should never reach their
destination, they thought they saw a curl of blue smoke rising from the
base of one of the foot-hills in among some tall cacti.

“Look, Billy, look,” cried Stubby, who had been the first to see it;
“that smoke means some man is building a fire to cook his supper by. I
have seen a little curl of smoke like that before and it always means
that, at this time of the day. Let’s go and see if he won’t share with
us. I am so hungry for a piece of meat I feel as if I could almost kill
some one, if I had to, to get it, and I am so thin, I am sure if you
listened you could hear my ribs rattle. Raw prairie-dog meat and roots
are not very filling food for a dog, and I feel as if the only thing I
had had to eat since we left Frisco was those ground bird eggs I sucked
a week ago. You did not like them and said they were too stale and that
if I waited half an hour they would hatch out and I could then have
birds instead of eggs. You must be just as hungry, for buffalo grass
may sustain life but it is dry stuff to eat, while the cacti leaves
are juicy enough to eat, but the thorns on their edges run into one’s
nose and mouth and make them bleed.”

While Stubby had been doing all this talking, they had cautiously
approached the spot where they had seen the smoke rising and soon the
delicious odor of juicy steak was wafted to their nostrils by the
evening breeze.

“Oh, Billy, do you smell that steak? Don’t it smell better than
anything you ever smelt in your life before?”

“Well, to tell you the truth, I would prefer carrots or turnips. You
forget I am not a meat eater. I am a vegetarian, but for all that I can
appreciate your feelings. Look between those two tall cacti. There is
an Indian as sure as I am alive!” said Billy.

“By the Great Black Bear!” said Stubby, “you are right and I see my
finish, for if I go nosing around here, they will catch me and make
soup of me in a twinkling.”

“Have no fear, Stubby. I know the Indians well. They are fond of dogs
and they never kill and eat them unless they are starving. There is no
danger of that now, for from the smell of cooking meat which we get,
they have evidently stolen a stray cow or steer from some herd and are
now cooking it whole over a camp-fire for the entire band. There is too
strong a smell to emanate from a small piece, so if I am right you are
in luck, and likely to have your fill before the night is over. They
only eat the best part of the animal and throw the rest to their dogs.”

[Illustration: IN THE VERY CENTER STOOD LITTLE DUKE.]

This proved to be the case and after the Indians had eaten their fill,
they rolled themselves in their blankets and went to sleep. Billy and
Stubby sneaked about and found the dogs at the feast. At first these
dogs were going to protest, but Billy called to them, “The first one of
you that yelps or objects to our helping ourselves I will rip open with
my horns.” As he looked big and fierce enough to carry out this threat,
they thought he meant what he said and so let him and Stubby alone and
fell to eating in silence.

“Now, go ahead, Stubby, and eat your fill, while I wander around and
see if I can’t find some sweet herbs, for the squaws generally have a
lot hanging outside of their wigwams drying, along with sweet grass
and onions. Oh, the very thought of onions makes my mouth water! so
good-bye for awhile, but if you should want me, give the signal by
three short barks.”

The next morning the Indians were delighted to find a large black goat
and a smart, little yellow dog. They camped here for some time, making
baskets and blankets, and then started on their way to the City of
Mexico to sell their wares. Billy and Stubby stayed with them until
they passed the stock-farm before mentioned in this chapter, and then
they left, made friends with the people on the farm, and became a
fixture there for some time.

They had been on this farm three months when the incident I am about to
relate happened.

[Illustration]




_The Midnight Fire._


On this farm were large barns where the blooded horses and bulls were
housed at night, each in his own stall, and over all were great hay
mows where the hay and feed for them were kept.

Billy was fastened in one of these stalls every night, because previous
to this he had eaten all the blossoms off the lemon tree, which was
the pride of the mistress; chewed the bosom out of his master’s dress
shirts for the starch that was in them; nibbled the trailing vines off
the hanging baskets on the front veranda; and chewed the sleeve out of
the cook’s new red calico wrapper that was hanging on a line outside to
dry. Stubby, however, was allowed to rove around at will, but he always
preferred to be locked up with Billy, as it was so lonesome when left
alone outside.

As luck would have it, on the night of the fire he preferred to remain
outside to gnaw on some bones he had hidden and to have a talk with a
little hairless Chihuahua dog that lived on the farm. Had it not been
for this, Billy might have been burned to death and this story brought
to an untimely end, besides Stubby would have lost the chance of making
himself a hero.

It was near midnight. His feast and chat with the Chihuahua dog were
over and he was lying asleep just outside of Billy’s stall. Suddenly he
was awakened by something hot dropping on his head and paw. Jumping up
to find out what had hurt him, he saw flames pouring out of the open
windows of the hayloft, and as he looked the frightened faces of two
tramps appeared at the windows and then disappeared, only to reappear
at another window where there was less fire. This window they climbed
into and stood prepared to jump, but hesitated before taking the risk
from that height, until the flames drove them off and they half jumped,
half fell, to the yard below, where they dropped uninjured upon a
pile of straw. They had scarcely landed when Stubby was after them,
barking and biting at their legs, while they took to their heels in
double-quick time, glad to get off the premises. Stubby did not follow
them, for he knew that he must hurry back and awaken the household so
some one would come and unlock the stall door where his beloved Billy
was fastened. He ran back to the barn and commenced to bark, telling
Billy that the barn was on fire.

“I knew it, Stubby. I have been smelling fire and smoke for the last
half hour, but did not know where it came from. My stall is so dense
with smoke I can’t see, and if it were not for this strong rope around
my neck I would be out of here, for I could easily butt down the door,
but this rope is as tough and strong as iron. I have been chewing it
ever since I smelt the smoke, but it still holds together. I have
pulled until my neck is nearly severed from my body and still it won’t
break or slip over my horns. The horses and cattle are all in a panic
and are snuffing and pawing like mad.”

“Keep on chewing, Billy, while I run to the house after help.
Everything is quiet there; the night watchman sneaked to the city when
every one went to bed and he has not returned, and at the house all are
fast asleep, never suspecting that their property is being destroyed
and their cattle in danger of cremation. Oh, why did the watchman
leave his post?” And Stubby literally flew to the house and barked and
barked, jumping against the door to make more noise and calling to the
little Chihuahua dog to help arouse the sleeping inmates.

Every minute the flames rose higher and higher and the blazing building
lit up the landscape for miles around. But the inmates slept serenely.
Stubby ran to the back of the house and upset a lot of milk pails,
knowing they would make a terrible clatter as they rolled about on
the stones, then back again he ran to his master’s door, growling as
before. At last a sleepy voice called out:

“If you are after a cat, let her alone and lie down; don’t arouse the
whole household with your noisy barking.”

“At last I have awakened some one,” said Stubby, “and I shall make more
noise than ever,” so he ran toward the barn and back again, barking
furiously all the time, so that his master would know something was
wrong there, then he again went to the door and growled and whined.

“There must be something the matter or Stubby would not make such a
fuss,” said his master to his wife. “I’ll just get up and look out
of the window,” and as he raised the window shade the whole room was
flooded with the red glare of fire.

“My God! wife, the barn is on fire and I have been lying here like a
log while that noble dog has been trying to awaken me, and I trying to
drive him off, thinking he was chasing cats!”

Stubby’s master only waited to step into a pair of trousers and
slippers before he followed Stubby on flying feet to the barn, just
stopping long enough on the way to ring the alarm bell that hung on a
high pole and could be heard all over the farm. This unusual sound in
the dead of night awoke all of the farm-hands, and they came running
along as fast as their feet could carry them, rubbing their sleepy
eyes, wondering what danger menaced them, for this bell was never to be
rung except in case of fire or danger.

One glance at the blazing barn drove all sleep from their eyes and they
rushed toward the fire; their one thought being to save the horses and
bulls; the bulls that were to fight in to-morrow’s fight and which
had been reared and fatted for this express purpose. Apart from the
great financial loss, it would spoil to-morrow’s sport for thousands
and thousands of Spaniards and Mexicans who were anxiously awaiting
the great event. These men, being Mexicans, did not think it cruel
to sacrifice bulls and horses and men even in these fights, which
are national affairs; but we think if the poor animals knew what was
awaiting them on the morrow, they would not have tried so frantically
to escape death by fire.

As Stubby and his master were approaching the barn, one end of the roof
fell in--that end where Billy’s stall was, and on seeing this Stubby
gave a howl of despair; but the next second was blinking to see if
his eyes were not deceiving him, for who should come out of the stall
door with a bound but Billy! The goat had at last succeeded in chewing
his rope in two, and, that done, it was an easy matter to butt down
the door. Better yet, the bulls, seeing this opening, had broken out
of their stalls and were following Billy. The roof had caught on some
strong cross-beams and had not fallen on the cattle in the stalls.

[Illustration]

Soon all the bulls were out, but to get the horses out was another
matter, for, as you know, horses will remain in a burning building
in spite of everything, unless you can cover their heads and lead
them out, and even then it is a hard matter to get them to stay out.
With the help of all hands, however, they succeeded in saving the
horses, but none too soon, for as the last one was led out, the whole
barn crushed in and a few minutes more was nothing but a red heap of
burning timbers. Stubby’s master was so thankful for the escape of his
expensive horses and valuable bulls that he did not give the loss of
the barn a second thought, and when it was all over he called Stubby
and said:

“Boys, do you see this little dog? Well, if it had not been for him
all my valuable stock would have been buried under that bed of burning
coals and I should have been a poor man, as all my wealth is tied up
in horses and cattle. It was he who awakened me and gave the alarm
of fire. For this he shall have a collar of gold with this motto
inscribed upon it, ‘_To Stubby for saving forty lives this collar is
affectionately dedicated by his master, Carlos Otero._’ Stubby can
always wear this collar as Billy does his, telling of this brave deed.”

The night watchman, hearing what had happened through his neglect,
never came back, as he was too ashamed and afraid to face his master.

Every one wondered how the barn caught on fire; some thought the
watchman had set it on fire, others thought one of the stable boys had
been careless about smoking and a spark from his pipe had set fire to
the hay; but no one but Stubby really knew about the two tramps whose
pipes had done all the mischief.




_The Bull-Fight._


Two days after the fire all was bustle and confusion at the farm, for
this was the day of the long anticipated bull-fight that was to occur
in Mexico City and for which these especial bulls had been raised and
fattened. It was barely sunrise when the little procession started for
the city; the object in starting so soon being to avoid the crowd of
people anxious to view the bulls before they reached the arena.

Billy Jr. and Stubby went along as a matter of course--they must see
everything going--and they had no intentions whatsoever of missing the
great fight, particularly as the odds were in favor of their favorite
bull. Our Billy knew thoroughbreds when he saw them and could pick
the winners. To-day’s favorite was strong of bone, supple of joint,
solid of flesh, with a quick eye and a temper like a firecracker. He
was handsome to look upon with his fine, short, glossy black coat and
beautifully curved horns with tips like needles, that could pierce a
horse’s skin and rip him open in the approved Mexican style. His eyes
were large and brilliant and his nose with its sensitive nostrils as
red as the cactus blossom of his native country. And how he could
bellow and paw the ground when mad! Yes, Billy was sure he would win
against all odds.

After they reached the city, he could hear the big bull stamping around
in his stall and bellowing for his breakfast. His royal highness was
not accustomed to be kept waiting, he was always fed on the dot--just
at sunrise, and here it was twelve o’clock and not a bite, not even a
whisp of hay. Had his master forgotten him? What an outrage after his
long walk in from the farm! What in the world could be the meaning of
such treatment? He little realized that he was being starved for a
purpose.

“I tell you what it is, Billy,” he grumbled, “if that crazy stable boy
don’t bring me something to eat soon, I’ll toss him over the barn.”

“Hark! what is that? I hear music. Don’t you? And the rumble of many
feet as the crowd of people take their places in the amphitheatre.”

“You are right, Billy, the band is playing; it is almost time to begin.
Well, if I don’t get something to eat before very long I’ll give them
some sport worthy the name when I get into the arena. Shut up in here,
treated so badly, and starved to death--I’ll make somebody pay well for
it.”

“Listen,” said Billy, “they are clapping and stamping, impatient for
the fight to begin.”

“They can’t begin any too soon to please me,” said Little Duke, which
was the name of Billy’s favorite bull. “There goes Black Jack on his
way to the ring. Billy, just hear the crowd cheer and shout! He must
have stepped into the arena. He is a nasty one to handle when he is
angry. If he gets a chance to dig his horns into one of those toreadors
or horses, the man in the moon pity them and have mercy on them, for
Black Jack won’t! It will be the last fight that man or horse ever
sees.”

[Illustration]

Bull after bull passed by their stall on their way to the arena, but
none ever returned; and the band played and the people cheered until at
last some one came for Little Duke, the flower of the flock. He, like
the others, was led into the ring to be teased and tantalized, tortured
and tormented until, crazy with pain and blind with fury, he would rip
horse after horse open in his mad rage to get at the toreador who was
goading him on with pricks from a long spear. And yet the blood-thirsty
Mexicans yelled for more.

But all things must come to an end; and Billy thought that it was high
time for this particular fight to come to an end right here. He had
heard a bellow of rage from Little Duke, followed by a groan of agony.
This was too much for Billy. When a friend called for help he could not
stay away; so with one bound he was out of his stall and bang! against
the little door that separated him from the arena. This gave way with a
crash, and with a rush and a plunge Billy bounded into the ring.

The first thing he saw when clear of splinters and dust was a huge
ampitheatre packed from the lowest to the highest row of seats with
people, until the faces made a human curtain. In the arena lay
disemboweled horses and slaughtered bulls. In the very center stood
Little Duke, bleeding from a hundred wounds, but still unsubdued and
defending himself nobly. There he stood with head erect, eyes blazing,
and nostrils quivering, ready to kill the first man or horse that
attacked him.

In a twinkling Billy took in the situation, and before the audience
or fighters knew what had happened, Billy had tossed one toreador to
one side, nearly breaking his back; had put another to flight; and then
made straight for the horseman who had so cruelly tortured Little Duke.
Just then an attendant opened a door, the man and horse escaped, and
the ring was cleared.

Billy, going back to see how badly Little Duke was hurt, licked his
nose in sympathy, and told him to brace up, for the fight was over for
that day. This pathetic scene seemed to touch even the hard hearts of
the Mexicans. They began to bid for the ownership of the goat and to
cheer and cheer until they could have been heard many blocks from the
amphitheatre.

At last Billy, perceived that he and his friend were standing alone in
the centre of the big ring with every eye upon them. The next thing he
noticed was that a little stubby-tailed yellow dog was circling round
and round them, barking in great glee. The fight was over and Stubby
had come to congratulate them.

Here ends the great bull-fight of the ninth of May, nineteen hundred
and four.




_The Escape._


An hour after the bull-fight was over, Billy and Stubby could have been
seen running first down one street, then down another, then through an
alley, and lastly through the suburbs, leaving a cloud of dust behind
them. They were running away from their master and his men who were
trying to drive them back to the farm, but Billy and Stubby decided
they did not want to return since all their friends, the bulls, but
Little Duke whose life Billy had saved, had been killed.

They kept running until they were sure they could not be overtaken and
then they stopped for breath and to decide where they wanted to go
next. While nibbling the leaves from a bush, Billy, chancing to look
up, saw straight ahead of him, looming up above trees and housetops, a
high mountain out of which a column of smoke was curling like a black
plume against the clear, blue sky.

“Look! Stubby, see what a big bon-fire there is on that mountain.”

“That isn’t a bon-fire,” said Stubby. “That is a volcano and
its name is Popocatapetl. It sounds as if they were saying,
poke-a-cat-with-a-paddle. I expect someone at sometime poked a cat with
a paddle on that mountain and that is how it got its name, something
after the manner of the Indians who give their children the name
of the first thing the mother sees after they are born. I suppose
the chiefs Blackhawk and Whitehorse got theirs in that way, as for
Mud-in-the-face, some one must have thrown mud in the mother’s face at
the critical moment.”

“Oh Stubby! You are too funny for anything. Where did you learn so
much?”

“Oh! from listening to what the people were saying round me when I was
out with my master.”

“You are a very observing dog and it would be a good thing if more
people followed your example, then they would learn a great deal even
if they never went to school.”

“How far do you suppose it is to that volcano?” asked Stubby.

“I’m sure I don’t know. I have given up guessing distances in this
locality or in any mountainous country. That reminds me, did you ever
hear the story of the joke on the Englishman who came to Colorado
Springs and started to walk to the mountains he saw back of the hotel,
thinking he could reach them and return before breakfast? I know you
have for every one has.”

“Go ahead and tell it. I want to hear it.”

“These mountains proved to be over a hundred miles away, though they
looked only five. So the next day when he went for a walk, coming to
a little stream, that one could easily step over, he instead sat down
and commenced taking off his shoes and stockings to the surprise of his
friend who was with him who asked what he was doing.”

“I was fooled on your distances yesterday, but I won’t be to-day. This
may look like a narrow stream, but if I try to step over, it will
broaden out and prove to be a river, so I’m getting ready to wade
across.”

This story made Stubby roll over on his back and fairly howl with
mirth, not only because it was funny but because he had heard it told
a hundred times and no two people had told it in the same way, and he
wanted to hear how Billy would tell it.

The cunning Stubby took good care not to let Billy know that he had
ever heard the story before, for good friends as they were, Billy might
not like to be made fun of, besides his horns were sharp.

Stubby’s rolls and laughter were cut short by hearing a great clatter
of horses’ hoofs on the hard road behind them.

“Hurry and hide, Billy. It must be a party of Mexicans racing on their
way home from the Bull-fight.”

Stubby was right. They were Mexican cow-boys out on a lark. When they
saw Billy’s head sticking above the bushes, one said in broken Spanish,
“Now for some fun,” at the same time unfastening his lasso from the
pummel on his saddle where it always hung and with a twirling tongue,
uttered this cry “Cha-r-r-r-ah!” He swung the lasso three times round
his head and as he did so the loop widened and lengthened until with a
hissing sound it descended, encircling Billy’s neck and the next second
he was jerked over the bush he was hiding behind and dragged at a fast
run after the cow-boy who was spurring his pony to catch up with those
who were ahead.

“Well! Carlos, what have you there?” called one of the boys, when he
saw him dragging Billy behind him.

“I’ve got a dandy billy-goat. Now you fellows see what you can lasso
and when we get back to the ranch we will raffle off what we catch or
cook them for supper.”

“Good for you Carlos. That will be sport. There, I see something now
I’m going to lasso,” meaning Stubby, who was following after Billy as
fast as he could, for he would have followed Billy into the jaws of
death, if need be.

Poor Stubby was very much surprised to feel a rope tighten around his
neck and the next minute to feel himself lifted from the ground to the
saddle before the cow-boy where he was held as they galloped on in
their mad race toward the ranch where the cow-boys lived.

It is astonishing what some cow-boys can do with a lasso and how expert
they may become in its use.

Presently, one of the boys spied a big turkey-buzzard sitting on top of
a cactus-plant and with a whoop like an Indian, he was after it.

Before Mr. Buzzard had time to spread his wings and fly, he felt
something hot twist around his neck, and the last thing he heard in
this world was a merry laugh go up from the cow-boys at the idea of
lassoing instead of shooting birds.

The cow-boy was going to throw his buzzard away but the others told him
to bring it along as every one was to show, when he got back, what he
had caught with his lasso.

Soon a terrible squealing was heard just ahead where one of the
cow-boys had ridden, and when the others caught up to him they found he
had succeeded in lassoing a brown and sandy-colored pig.

“Good for you Jake. Now we will have some roast pork and goat chops for
supper and we will throw the bones to the turkey-buzzard.”

They did not know then that the big buzzard’s neck was broken.

They were now so near the ranch, it began to look as though some of
the boys would fail to find anything to lasso, and they had agreed
that those who had not succeeded in getting anything by the time they
reached the ranch should clean and cook whatever had been caught.

“Well, I’ll be switched if I’ll do that,” said a great, tall cow-boy.
“I’ll find something or die.”

As he said this, his eyes detected a gray something sneaking away
behind some rocks, so he gave chase, not knowing what it was going to
be. When this gray object heard his pony’s hoofs on the stone, it got
frightened and left its hiding place behind a great boulder and took
to its heels. Whizz! went the lasso, but instead of catching the wolf,
for that is what it was, it coiled around the boulder, and the wolf had
several leaps and strides the advantage. His failure to catch the wolf
the first time, only made the cow-boy the more determined to have it at
all costs in the end, and then the chase began: Over the rocks, round
clumps of cacti, across ditches, the cow-boy steadily gaining, until
with one long, mighty sweep of his arm the lasso stretched out and fell
over the gray wolf’s head and he was captured.

Then like Billy, he was made to trot along behind the cow-boy’s pony
until they came into the corral at the ranch. Once there, the cow-boys
threw their saddles and bridles up on pegs in the stable and turned
their ponies loose in the corral with a bunch of alfalfa to feed on.
And now for the fun of seeing the boys, who failed to lasso anything,
clean and cook the pig and goat. A coin was tossed to see which should
be killed first. The head stood for the goat and the tail for the pig.
The coin was flipped and up came tail so it was poor piggy’s fate to be
killed first.

While two of the boys went to get a big iron kettle to boil water to
scald him with, so they could scrape the bristles off, the others
thought they would have some fun teasing Billy, but little did they
suspect that their goat was the same goat they had seen that afternoon
at the Bull-fight, clear the entire ring of horses, riders and
toreadors, or they would not have been so anxious to tease him.

Billy bleated to Stubby to stay near him as he was going to watch his
chance to jump the wall of the corral and make his escape before they
had time to kill him and cut him up into goat chops.

“I am going to appear very gentle until they take this lasso off my
neck and then we will see ‘Who is who and what is what.’”

Stubby barked back “All right, I will watch you and if you get into a
fight, I will help you by biting the legs of whoever bothers you.”

“Say, Sam, that is too nice a looking goat to cut up into chops. I say
we keep him and turn him loose with our goats on the range. Come here
Mr. Billy and I will take the lasso off your neck.” He walked up to
Billy and slipped the lasso off, giving his whiskers a parting pull.
That settled it. Billy’s docility disappeared in a minute and before
the cow-boy had taken a step he felt something sticking into him as if
he had sat down on two darning needles and these needles were pushing
farther and farther into him and urging him along at a fast trot until
he felt a sudden boost and he found himself sitting on top of the
corral wall, while the black goat landed on the other side followed
by a little stubby-tailed yellow dog and both disappeared down a deep
ravine and were lost sight of, and what is more, no one followed them
or tried to bring them back.

[Illustration]




_The Volcano._


As soon as Billy and Stubby were sure they were not being followed they
stopped to rest and to form new plans.

“Stubby, what in the world are you carrying in your mouth?”

Dropping it so that he could answer, Stubby replied, “A nice, large
piece of beef.”

“Beef! Where did you get any beef, I should like to know.”

“Well, you see I can’t live on grass and roots as you can and as I was
pretty hungry, I took my chance of getting stoned and stole this piece
as we ran by the smoke-house. Didn’t you notice the little house in the
clump of bushes near the side of the corral wall?”

“No, I did not see it, or know that you were behind me until just now,
for you did not bark, and I expected I would have to wait awhile for
you to join me, but now I see that you had your mouth so full you could
not bark. You go ahead and make a good supper of your steak and I will
make mine of these tender, green leaves.”

As they ate they talked of their future and Billy said he was getting
tired of Mexico as it had too much sand, cacti and other stickly plants
and not enough water and grass.

“Now, I say, we get out of it as soon as we can, but how we are going
to do that is a puzzle to me, for it seems to me the further we
travel south from California the hotter it gets, and I say instead of
traveling south as we have been doing, that we change our course and
keep to the west. In that way we will come to the Pacific coast.

“When we get there we can follow the shore until we come to some
town or city where we can take an ocean steamer and be carried away
anywhere. Who cares where? just so that we get away from this hot,
dusty country. Besides, I am very anxious for another ocean voyage and
always have been since Day and I came from Constantinople.

“My! Stubby, how I should like to see my sweet little sister and dear
father and mother again. And would it not be strange if we should
happen to get on a ship bound for Boston? I can tell you, if we should
have such luck I would not let the grass grow under my feet until I was
back on the farm again.”

“I believe you are homesick,” said Stubby.

“You’re right I am.”

“Well, I don’t blame you for I, too, would be homesick if I had ever
had a home with a sister and dear parents in it, but you see I have
never known what it was to have a home or any one to care for me.”

“Just see how that old volcano is smoking now, and what a bright
reflection it throws on the sky above it!”

“It is due west from here. What do you say to our going to the top of
it and seeing what a volcano really does look like at close range? It
may be our only chance to see one for they don’t have any in the United
States.”

“Say we do, and perhaps, it is so high, we can see the ocean from its
top. We shall then be able to see how far we have to travel before
reaching the coast.”

“That is a good idea and we will follow it out. Now let us lie down
here and spend the night and start early in the morning before the sun
gets too hot.”

Ten minutes later they were both asleep with Stubby curled up under
Billy’s nose. He always got as close to him as possible for company.

It took our travelers several days to reach the volcano and its summit,
and those days were days of hardships, with little to eat or drink, and
both were looking tired and thin when we met them again within a few
feet of the opening of the crater.

“Billy, I think sight-seeing is pretty hard work, especially when you
have to walk all the way and nearly die of thirst and hunger. These hot
cinders and hardened lava are burning and cutting my feet all to pieces
and I wish I had hoofs like yours.”

“Well, if you wish you had my hoofs, I wish I had your short hair,
for I am almost suffocated with my long coat, besides the air in this
altitude is hard to breathe. One gets out of breath so easily and feels
as if there was nothing to the air. Phew! what’s that terrible odor? It
smells as if a whole factory of sulphur matches had gone off at once.
Hark! What is that rumbling noise? It sounds like thunder, but it can’t
be that for the sky is without a cloud and is as blue as blue can be.
Say, Stubby, did you feel the earth shake then? If we were down on the
level I should think it were an earthquake. Gracious! did you hear that
explosion and feel the earth shake again? We had better get out of
this.”

Just then the smoke rolled away for a minute and they saw they were
within a few feet of the top so they decided they would not give up,
bad as the sulphur and smoke were, until they had taken one peep into
the crater.

This one peep nearly cost Stubby his life, for just as he had crawled
to the very brink and was looking down, down, down into the very bowels
of the earth where lava was boiling and steam hissing, an extra whiff
of sulphur arose from the boiling, seething mass below which choked
and strangled him so he could not move.

[Illustration]

Billy had jumped back barely in time to escape it and was just starting
on a run down the cone away from this dangerous place when he heard
a little whine and saw Stubby drop over on his side as if dead. With
a bound Billy was back, and grabbing him by the nape of his neck, as
a cat carries her kittens, he carried him down the volcano’s side to
safety.

It took Stubby a long while to come to and when he did so he found his
poor little torn and bleeding feet as well as his nose resting in the
cool sands of a little stream, and all he had to do, if he wanted a
drink, was to stick out his tongue and let the water run through his
mouth.

“Well, Stubby, are you feeling better?” he heard Billy say when he
tried to open his eyes to see where he was.

“How in the world did I get here? Can you tell me that? for I had given
up the hope of ever getting off that hot volcano again.”

“Indeed, I can, for I carried you every step of the way in my mouth,
and when I got here I thought every tooth in my head would drop out,
and instead of the little light weight dog I started with, I thought I
was carrying an elephant, you got so heavy.”

“Billy, old fellow, you are a brick. That’s what you are.”

The next day Stubby was all right, and noticing that this little stream
flowed toward the west, they followed it for two reasons. One, because
they thought it would eventually run into the ocean; and the other,
because they were afraid to leave it for fear of not finding any more
water, and it was impossible to travel in this dry, hot country without
having lots of water.

This little stream proved a perfect godsend to them as it quenched
their thirst, cooled their aching feet and bodies and saved them many a
long climb as it always kept its course and flowed straight on.

Had they followed the mountain trail it would have led them up hill
and down and over many stones and brambles. Now, when they came to a
precipice that shut off their path by its steep side they took to the
stream and either waded or swam around it. In this way they reached
the seashore days before they had expected to and with happy eyes they
looked over the peaceful, blue bosom of the Pacific Ocean.

“Stubby, I feel as if I had escaped from prison to get out of that
lonesome country full of insects, snakes and centipedes. Oh! how
refreshing this salt breeze smells.”

“Yes, but I smell something sweeter to doggie nostrils and that’s the
smell of frying meat. There must be a fisherman’s cottage around that
bend. Good-bye, I’m off for some of it, and I mean to have some, even
if I have to steal it from the red hot stove.”

“Don’t be in such a hurry and I’ll go with you.”

“No, you had better stay here. You are so big they will see you, while
I am little and so near the color of the sand that I can sneak in and
not be seen, and after finding out who lives there and getting a piece
of meat, I will come back and tell you all about it.”

“Very well, but bring me back a bunch of carrots or a cabbage if you
find any for I am as tired of eating leaves as you are of going without
meat.”

Stubby crept cautiously round the bend and then laid down behind a bush
out of sight so that he could watch and see who lived in the house. On
the doorstep sat a stoop-shouldered man smoking a stubby pipe, while
in front of him on the sand played three or four little children,
bare-headed, bare-footed, with only faded calico slips on.

Through the open door Stubby could see the wife and mother leaning over
the stove cooking, yes, he knew it by the smell, the selfsame steak he
was longing for. He sneaked cautiously and quietly round to the back
of the cottage and there--Oh, be joyful--he spied the remnants of the
heifer that had been killed so that the family could have a taste of
fresh meat, which was as great a treat to them as to Stubby, for they
generally lived on salt meat and fish, which the father caught, for he
was a fisherman, and took to a little town ten miles up the coast for
shipment to large cities.

After Stubby had eaten all he wanted of the fresh meat he ran back to
Billy and told him there was a small garden of vegetables back of the
cottage where he could go as soon as it was dark and have a feast.

The tired, sleepy heads of the fisherman and his family had hardly
touched their pillows when a large, black goat could have been seen in
the midst of a vegetable garden, eating cabbages, turnips and lettuce,
while a little yellow dog sat on a brown speckled rock and licked his
chops after a meal of fresh beef and cold boiled potatoes he had found
just inside the kitchen door, nicely chopped for breakfast.

Presently Stubby gave a sudden, sharp bark of alarm which made Billy
throw up his head to see what was the matter, when what should he see
but the rock Stubby was sitting on, walk off with four legs with a
queer flat head sticking out from one side. Stubby jumped off in a
hurry and was nearly bitten in two by a quick snap of the jaws of this
queer looking beast, bird or fowl. They did not know which to call it
as they had never before seen or heard of a snapping turtle, and that
is what this was. Stubby had taken its shell for a large stone, as it
had its head and feet drawn in out of sight when he jumped upon it.

This turtle was a huge one that the fisherman had caught the day before
and was going to take to town in the morning to sell to a hotel-keeper
to make turtle soup of.

The next morning Billy and Stubby kept out of sight until the fisherman
had loaded his wagon with fish, vegetables and his turtle, and had
started on his way to town. Then they ran out of their hiding place and
followed him, taking great care to keep out of sight and in this way
they soon came to the seaport town and followed him down to the wharf.
When they reached the town they both walked under the wagon so that
people would think that they belonged to the fisherman and would let
them alone.

When they arrived at the wharf where lay a vessel ready to sail for San
Francisco, the fisherman got off his wagon to unload and then, for the
first time, he spied Billy and Stubby who were still under it and he
was very much surprised to see them there I can tell you.

One of the sailors said, “What will you take for your goat?”

Without letting on that Billy was not his or that he had never laid
eyes on him before, he said, “Well! as he is pretty fine, big goat, I
can’t let you have him for less than five dollars.”

“All right. It’s a go,” said the sailor, who had lots of money at
present, having just received his pay and not having had a chance to
spend it.

“And what will you take for the dog?” asked another.

“Well, I don’t know as I care to sell him,” said the fisherman,
thinking if he held off they would give him more money.

“You can’t expect to get much for him,” said another. “He is too
tarnation homely.”

“That’s a matter of taste,” drawled the fisherman. “Looks ain’t
everything in this world, and you can’t find a smarter rat dog along
this coast.”

He threw this remark in for he knew it would catch the sailor as the
ships are always infested with rats.

“Well, I’ll give you a dollar for him.”

“No, I couldn’t think of selling him so cheap,” and he climbed into his
wagon, as if he were going off and did not care to part with him.

“I’ll give you two dollars and a half, and not a cent more.”

“I don’t care to sell him, but as he has cleaned out all the rats at my
place I guess I’ll let you have him.”

The sailors gave him the money for the goat and the dog, and he drove
off a happy man, but he did not let the grin show on his face until he
was out of sight of the sailors.

Now this was a great streak of luck for Billy and Stubby, and was just
what they wanted, so they followed their new masters on board without
giving any trouble and by night their ship had sailed out of port and
was on her way to San Francisco.




_An Unexpected Trip._


After an uneventful trip, they sailed one day into the beautiful
harbor of San Francisco, called the Golden Gate, and Billy and Stubby
were looking forward to a good time on shore, and planning what they
would do, when, all unexpectedly, after landing, they got mixed up in
a bunch of cattle, and were driven aboard a big boat that was being
loaded with live cattle for Japan, and try as he would, Billy could
not extricate himself from them or avoid the long whips of the men who
were driving them. As for Stubby, he could easily have slipped away,
but he preferred to follow Billy, and that is how our travelers found
themselves bound for Japan without a day’s rest on shore after they
came up the coast from Mexico to San Francisco.

This was not at all what they wanted, for they were tired of the ocean,
but they were helpless, and what was worse, Billy stood in danger of
being killed and sold for mutton chops, for goat chops are often sold
for such. Stubby was afraid he, too, would be killed and made into
sausage, for he had heard that the Chinese eat dog meat, and if they
did, why not the Japanese? So with heavy hearts they saw the shore
recede farther and farther from them and the Golden Gate sink into the
blue waters of the Pacific, leaving them nothing to look at but water,
water all around them.

The only thing that varied the monotony of the long trip to Japan was
their short stop at the Sandwich Islands, where Billy and Stubby were
taken ashore for a run by the cook and his assistant, who were both
Japanese and were returning home to fight for their country against
Russia.

Since starting they had made great pets of both Billy and Stubby and
had often given them meat and apples, and got permission for them
to run on deck once in a while. Otherwise they would have been shut
below with the cattle and the trip would have been unendurable to the
independent, free-roving Billy.

One dark night as the steamer was ploughing the waters and they were
laying in a little sheltered nook on deck, they heard the captain say
to the mate:

“We are getting pretty near Port Arthur now and it is going to be
mighty ticklish sailing in these waters; with the two armies, the
Russians and the Japanese, banging away at each other from their
battleships and the waters under us filled with hidden mines and
torpedo boats. I tell you, I don’t like these submarine things floating
around. Who knows but one might get loose, float off and perhaps blow
up the wrong boat.”

And that is just what did happen, for while the captain was talking, a
terrific explosion was heard, louder than one hundred cannons going off
at once, and for a second, the heavens were lit up with a weird light
in which were seen huge pieces of debris flying in the air like the
eruption from a volcano, while, almost in the same second, they began
falling with a sissing sound into the waters beneath, and all that was
left of the Russian’s battle ship was a few splinters of wood and the
mangled bodies of her officers and men floating on top of the water.

It had all been so sudden and was over so quickly that it was hard to
realize that such a terrible disaster could have occurred in so short a
time.

“Now, what did I tell you about the danger of sailing along here? One
of these submarine mines or torpedo boats caused the blowing up of that
war-ship and I tell you what, we had better get out of here as fast as
ever we can or we too may be blown sky high before we know it.”

Consequently, they cautiously and softly steamed away from Port Arthur
and kept a sharp lookout for every Russian boat that might be sailing
round looking for some boat of the enemies to capture, but they escaped
them all.

When they landed, Billy’s and Stubby’s friends, the Japs, took them
home with them where they were fed and nicely housed in their back
yard, and while Billy and Stubby were making friends with the beautiful
pheasants that were shut in the same yard, their Japanese friends went
to military headquarters to join the army and when they came back they
were dressed in their uniforms with orders in their pockets to report
at headquarters the next morning.

For several days after this, Billy and Stubby saw nothing of them but
they were fed and looked after by a pretty, rosy faced, little Jap girl
who wore a pretty flowered kimona and wore her hair in funny looking,
little, smooth puffs with toy fans sticking out of it.

They had been in the yard about a week and Billy was getting tired of
such close quarters with nothing to see or do, when he heard a military
band marching down the street on the other side of the high fence. The
little Jap girl who had just brought them some water, when she heard
this, dropped her pan and ran to the gate in the fence and looked out
to see the soldiers go by. Of course Billy turned and was through the
gate in a flash with Stubby close at his heels and down the street they
ran in the direction the band had taken, while the poor little Jap girl
ran after them wringing her hands in dismay and calling to them to
come back, but they only ran the faster.

[Illustration]

Billy was as bad as any little Irish Paddy about liking to follow a
parade or a band and when he caught up to it he found it was leading a
regiment that was marching to the front. When Billy and Stubby dropped
back to the rear who should they see but their Japanese friends, the
last men of the last ranks.

When Billy spied them he made up his mind in a twinkle to follow and go
to the war with them. This he bleated to Stubby and of course Stubby
thought it would be great fun and agreed to go, too.

When the regiment had left the city’s cheering crowds behind, Billy
and Stubby crept up closer to the soldiers and trudged on quietly
after them until Stubby gave a quick little bark which one of the Japs
recognized and turning his head, he saw with surprise Billy and Stubby
marching behind him.

He tried to drive them back by shooing them and scolding but what cared
Billy and Stubby for a shoo or a scold when they were going to the war.
As the Japs could not break ranks and go for the goat and the dog,
they had to let them follow, which they did, mile after mile until the
regiment broke ranks for the night and went into camp.

By that time, they had traveled too far to send them back, so that
night when the Japs threw themselves down by their camp-fire, a large
black goat and a little yellow dog lay down with them.

And for many days and weeks and months they did this, sticking to the
regiment whether it chanced to be in the thick of the fight or waiting
for marching orders, and strange as it may seem, whenever this regiment
was in a fight, it always won and the two Japs had fought so bravely
that they had been promoted until they were no longer privates but
were colonel and captain, and their regiment was known as the “Black
Goat and Yellow Dog Regiment,” while Billy and Stubby had become their
mascots and here we will leave them to enjoy their honors.




Billy Whiskers Series

(TRADE MARK.)

[Illustration]

By FRANCES TREGO MONTGOMERY


BILLY WHISKERS

Billy Whiskers is a mischievous creature, full of wickedness and folly,
whose antics have furnished fun for a million readers. The child enjoys
every moment after he is introduced to the irresistible fellow.


BILLY WHISKERS’ KIDS

“Recounting the adventures of Day and Night, twin kids of the
nursery-famous Billy Whiskers. This is a stirring tale of travel and
trouble and mischief that will delight the little world.”--_Galveston
News._


BILLY WHISKERS, JR.

“Night, now grown, is known as Billy Whiskers, Jr. and as he has
all the personal traits which made his father’s career one round of
surprising activity and astonishing adventure, the son will be quite as
well beloved as his sire.”--_Chicago Record Herald._


BILLY WHISKERS’ TRAVELS

In which the ever active Billy tours Europe, each city in turn
furnishing ample opportunity for fun for sight-seeing Billy.


BILLY WHISKERS AT THE CIRCUS

“Everything goes well enough with Billy until a circus comes to town,
and then just like the small boy, he made up his mind to go come what
might and cost what it would. He made preparations for a week and went,
there to meet with all manner of adventures, becoming so infatuated
with the life that he joined it.”--_Des Moines Capital._


BILLY WHISKERS AT THE FAIR

In going to the Fair, Billy Whiskers didn’t leave a single prank at
home. He had more fun to the minute than most others have to the hour.
What he didn’t do and didn’t see is not worth relating.


  Each volume bound in boards, cover and jacket in colors, six full-page
    illustrations in colors, with scores of text drawings, quarto,
    postpaid, per volume                                           $1.00


THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING CO., AKRON, OHIO




The Billy Whiskers Series

TRADE MARK. REGISTERED IN U. S. PATENT OFFICE.


DICKY DELIGHTFUL IN RAINBOW LAND                    by James Ball Naylor

Dicky is truly a delightful youngster, who ventures over Rainbow Road,
to find himself the guest of Grandfather Gander and Grandmother Goose
in the Land of the Immortals.

Dr. Naylor knows how to please boys and girls, for the story is
brimming over with humor, rapid movement and lively conversation.


THE LITTLE GREEN GOBLIN                             by James Ball Naylor

The Little Green Goblin comes from Goblinland in his tiny featherbed
balloon, administers a goblin tablet to Bob Taylor, a dissatisfied
boy. The tablet shrinks him to goblin size, and away the two sail for
Goblinland, which is the place where you do as you please. Upon their
arrival, Bob--but to tell more would be to spoil a good story.


WITCH CROW AND BARNEY BYLOW                         by James Ball Naylor

Barney fell to wishing down in the haylot, along came a crow and gave
him a magic penny--he would always have that much but no more. Many
strange things then happened--things which cured Barney of that bad
habit of wishing.


SQUEAKS AND SQUAWKS FROM FAR-AWAY FORESTS               by Burton Stoner

“Mr. Bull has done some remarkably good work for SQUEAKS AND SQUAWKS,
both in colors and halftones. The color work is superb.”--_Grand Rapids
Herald._

Charles Livingston Bull illustrates this charming book of nature
stories, in which the animals speak for themselves.


JIM CROW TALES                                          by Burton Stoner

Jim Crow was the pet of a farmer boy. He was very wise and knew
all about the ways of the beasts and birds, and told them to his
friend--the most interesting anecdotes of the forest folk.


TEDDY BEARS                                        by Adah Louise Sutton

“A fanciful story of the doings of a little girl’s toys, which get into
all sorts of pranks while people sleep. The doings of this interesting
coterie form a pleasing tale for children.”--_Pittsburg Post._

“Full of the brand of fun that tickles children.”--_Portland Oregonian._


A LITTLE MAID IN TOYLAND                           by Adah Louise Sutton

Eating a piece of magic cake, a little girl becomes diminutive and goes
to live among the dollies in her doll house. One day she steps through
the back door and finds herself in Toyland, and thereafter adventures
come thick and fast.


A CHRISTMAS WITH SANTA CLAUS                 by Frances Trego Montgomery

Santa carries two children to his home in his wonderful sleigh. They
meet Mrs. Santa, are shown a royal good time, and then Santa brings
them back when he makes his annual trip.


  EACH BOOK BOUND IN BOARDS, QUARTO, ILLUSTRATED IN COLORS.
    Postpaid for $1.00

The Saalfield Publishing Co., Akron, Ohio




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BILLY WHISKERS JR. ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
